ENGLISH 
BY THE NATURE METHOD 
BY 
ARTHUR M. JENSEN 
Endorsed by the Following Professors of English: 
S. R.T. O. D’ARDBNNB 
University of Li&ge 
P. N. U. HARTING 
University of Amsterdam 
FRANZ DE BACKER 
University of Ghent 
OTTO JESPERSEN (f) 
University of Copenhagen 
FRANK BEHRB 
University of Gothenburg 
B. VON LINDHEIM 
Free University of Berlin 
HELLMUT BOCK 
University of Kiel 
H. LUDEKE 
University of Basle 
C. A. BODELSEN 
University of Copenhagen 
FERNAND MOSS& (f) 
College de France 
G. BONNARD 
University of Lausanne 
OLE REUTER 
University of Helsingfors 
KARL BRUNNER 
University of Innsbruck 
K. SCHIBSBYE 
University of Copenhagen 
W. CLEMEN 
University of Munich 
F. TH. VISSER 
University of Nijmegen 
L. ECKHOFF 
University of Oslo 
MAX WILDI 
Institute of Technology, Zurich 
OTTO FUNKB 
University of Berne 
R. W. ZANDVOORT 
University of Groningen 
The Nature Method Institutes 
AMSTERDAM • BRUSSELS • COPENHAGEN • HELSINGFORS 
LONDON • MILAN • MUNICH • OSLO • PARIS 
STOCKHOLM • VIENNA • ZURICH 
PREFACES 
Extract from the Preface by 
OTTO JESPERSEN 
Ph. D., Litt. D., LL. D., Late Professor of English Language and Literature in the University of Copenhagen 
Mr. Arthur M. Jensen has asked me to write a preface to his 
course: “English by the Nature Method”. It is with great pleasure 
that I comply with his wish, for I heartily agree with his method and 
think it has been on the whole carried out very skilfully and with real 
pedagogical insight. 
The main idea is that all, or nearly all, sentences should be self¬ 
interpreting, the meaning of new words being in each case readily 
understood without any possible doubt from the context, in the begin¬ 
ning aided here and there by a simple drawing, so that a translation is 
never necessary. 
In accordance with a wise old rule the author has not been afraid 
of repeating the same thing over and over again, especially in the 
beginning, so that words and phrases are as it were hammered into 
the brains of the student so as to be his possessions for ever. 
The most necessary grammatical forms are from the very first 
imparted in a natural way without using any technical terms; later 
some very elementary grammatical instruction is given with simple 
theoretical explanations. 
It is my conviction that the student who has conscientiously worked 
his way through the course will with a minimum of effort have 
acquired a fair knowledge of the English language and will be familiar 
with the most necessary words and phrases so as to feel at home in 
the language. 
Elsinore, May the nth, 1942. 
Otto Jespersen 
1/2 
3 
PREFACES 
Preface by 
Dr. FERNAND MOSSE 
Late Professor of Languages and Literatures of Germanic Origin at the College de France 
I have pleasure in giving my fullest approval to the course entitled 
“English by the Nature Method”, which I have examined with much 
interest. It is a genuine “natural” method, most ingeniously presented 
with great pedagogical acumen. Its user can be assured of the utmost 
success, provided that he never becomes discouraged if he is working 
on his own, and that he keeps on perseveringly to the end. It is only 
by thoroughly assimilating the most judiciously chosen sentences 
making up each lesson, by learning them by heart after having studied 
and understood them, that the student will gradually discover that he 
really knows English. When he reaches the last booklet he should be 
able to express himself with facility by the help of the words, forms 
and phrases at his command. Like the man in the Gospels who was 
cured by a miracle, he can then be told to arise and walk. 
Other highly qualified persons have already excellently expressed their 
opinions of this English course. I shall merely add that, even if similar 
methods are to be found, I know of none more capable of attaining 
the desired goal than the one so patiently worked out by Mr. Arthur 
M. Jensen. 
Paris, January 1955. 
Fernand Mosse 
Preface by 
Dr. J. FOURQUET 
Professor of Germanic Philology in the University of Paris 
The method worked out by Mr. Arthur M. Jensen corresponds very 
closely to the ideal conception I had formed as I reflected on the best 
possible way of devising a rational system of modern language teaching 
inspired by the “direct method”. I had in mind a work in which the 
principles of this method would be applied down to the smallest detail. 
It would be necessary to pass from the phonetic transcription of isolated 
examples to a running transcription; to associate with pictures all 
4 
PREFACES 
words capable of being so represented, to present the material progres¬ 
sively in such a way that every new element would be explained by a 
context made up of elements already acquired, and finally systematic¬ 
ally to base the acquisition of knowledge on complete sentence forms, 
passing gradually from the simplest to the most complex types. It 
should thus be possible to build up a language without having recourse 
either to dictionary or grammar-book, those lifeless collections of 
forms divorced from their context. 
I find all these requirements complied with in Mr. Jensen’s work, 
to which I cannot but give my full approval. Moreover, the working 
out of every detail, no doubt thanks to much patience and ingenuity, 
is in every way worthy of the boldness of the plan and, if I may say 
so, of the purity of the principles inspiring the author. 
Provided one enters fully into the spirit of the method, namely 
never to make a step forward without having consolidated all that 
went before by the repetition of complete idiomatic sentences, one 
will be capable, by the end of the book, of immediate and spontaneous 
expression. It will only be necessary to make different combinations 
of the elements in the type sentence-patterns firmly imprinted 
on the nervous system, in order to speak with ease. The vocabulary, 
built up round centres of interest and always having a context, will be 
more readily recalled because of the network of associations in which 
it grew up from the start. This method can be called truly natural be¬ 
cause it takes the fullest account of the organic nature of language. 
Paris, August 1956. 
J. Fourquet 
Preface by 
Dr GEORGES BONNARD 
Professor of English Language and Literature in the University of Lausanne 
The author of “English by the Nature Method” has aimed at 
providing those who wish to learn English and are denied the help of 
an ordinary teacher, with a text-book that might, in little over a year, 
5 
PREFACES 
bring them to the point where reading English books and conversation 
in English may be, or at least begin to be, actually possible. This 
means that they must be made to acquire an intelligible pronunciation, 
the essentials of the grammar, a fairly copious vocabulary and plenty 
of idiomatic phrases. 
A careful examination of the sixty chapters — each to be mastered 
in a week — contained in the sixteen booklets of the whole course has 
convinced me that Mr. Arthur M. Jensen has really succeeded in doing 
all he had set out to do. His main concern has been with young people 
in business, which is quite natural since it is in the world of business 
that he will mostly find young men and women who feel the need of 
some knowledge of English and have never had the opportunity of 
getting it. But he has taken care not to give undue importance to their 
requirements, so that his course may be used with just as much profit 
by whoever desires to learn English by himself. On reaching the end 
of the last booklet, any student with a normal, even if untrained mind, 
will certainly be capable of reading easy stuff, of understanding some¬ 
thing of the spoken language, even of speaking it to some extent. 
This result is obtained by the systematic use of the so-called direct 
method of teaching languages. The basic principle of that method, 
as every one knows, is to teach a foreign language without the help 
of the learner's mother-tongue, except for occasional explanations. 
This can be done firstly by connecting as many words as possible 
directly with the objects, ideas, and actions they denote, and secondly 
by introducing new words, idioms, and grammatical facts in such a 
way that there can be no hesitation whatever in the pupil's mind as 
to what they mean. 
In the class-room the teacher can easily point to many objects the 
names of which he wants to teach the pupil. He may use pictures re¬ 
presenting all sorts of things which are not at hand. A number of 
verbs can also be taught by means of gestures and movements. In a 
book meant for people who try to learn a language without a teacher, 
pictures can of course be used to some advantage, but they must be 
very clear and simple, so that there will be no risk of wrong associ¬ 
ations being formed. The pictures given in the margins of the booklets 
6 
PREFACES 
answer that condition. But the author has had to rely, far more than 
any teacher in any class-room, on the second of the means at the 
disposal of the direct method, that is on the introduction of any new 
word, idiom or grammatical fact in such a context that its meaning 
can be grasped at once. 
It is in the application of that principle that “English by the Nature 
Method” is unquestionably superior to any text-book based on the 
direct method that I have ever seen. The skill with which everything 
new, be it a word, a phrase or a fact of grammar, is first presented 
is remarkable, at times even truly amazing. That skill will be best 
appreciated by those teachers who, intent on never deviating from the 
direct method, are often at a loss how to get it done. But every 
sentence seems so natural, in no way perceptibly composed for the 
purpose it fulfils, that the skill is never obvious. 
The new word must be, not only understood, but learned and remem¬ 
bered. It must become familiar. This can only be achieved by dint of 
repetition. But repetition, unless it be sustained by variety, will soon 
become wearisome. The new element must therefore be used again and 
again, each time in a different context. That is a serious difficulty. That 
difficulty has here been successfully overcome. Mr. Jensen has displayed 
a resourcefulness in the repeated use of the same element in different 
contexts which is equal to his skill in introducing it for the first time. 
And this is all the more creditable because he has done so not in discon¬ 
nected sentences — that curse of language teaching — but in continuous 
texts which, simple though they must be, quickly grow in interest. 
The course is divided into three distinct series of twenty chapters, 
each with its own general subject, and serving at the same time as a 
well-informed approach to various aspects of English civilisation, life 
and manners. Here again the author must be praised for his making 
the story he tells something more than a mere pretext for passing from 
one chapter to the next. The adventures and experiences of the clerk 
who marries his office manager's daughter are sure to delight those 
unsophisticated young people who are most likely to use “Engslish by 
the Nature Method”. 
7 
PREFACES 
One of the most interesting, and to my mind most judicious, features 
of the course is the importance it gives to the imparting of a decent 
pronunciation. The learner is expected to master the alphabet of the 
International Phonetic Association and study the simple descriptions 
of the sounds of English given in the introductory booklet before 
starting on the course proper, where, right underneath every word of 
the text, he will find its full transcription. This may appear a bit 
clumsy. But I do not see how else the problem of teaching the pronun¬ 
ciation could have been solved satisfactorily. At the cost of a slight 
initial effort, the student, however left to himself he may be, is sure 
never to go astray. And he is advised of course to use to the full every 
opportunity he may have of hearing the new sounds he must use. 
The instructions in the student’s own language which are sent to him 
with each booklet, the exercises added to all the chapters, and the para¬ 
graphs of grammar to be found in the last twenty chapters, all denote 
the same meticulous care, the same attention to the necessary details as 
have gone to the composition of the text itself. 
In conclusion I think it can be confidently asserted that those that 
set themselves to learning English with the help of Mr. Jensen’s method 
will be thoroughly satisfied with it, but on condition they do not imagine 
any language can be learnt without steady and even hard work. For 
this is not one of the least satisfactory features of “English by the 
Nature Method” that it does not pretend that you can learn to read and 
speak English in a few weeks or in a dozen lessons or so. 
May I add that in the hands of a competent teacher devoted to the 
direct method this course would probably do wonders in the class¬ 
room. 
Lausanne, February the 26th, 1951. 
Georges Bonnard 
