Chapter One (1). 
The First (1st) Chapter. 
THE FAMILY 
Mr. Smith Mrs. Smith 
Mr. Smith is a man. Mrs. Smith is a woman. 
John is 
mist a smip iz a man. 
misiz smip iz a wuman. 
dyn iz 
a boy. Helen is a girl. 
The baby is also a girl. 
Helen 
a boi. helin iz a ga:l. 
da beibi iz o:lsou a ga:l. 
helin 
and the baby are girls. 
Mr. Smith is the father. Mrs. 
and da beibi a: ga:lz. 
mist a smip iz da fa: da. 
misiz 
Smith is the mother. 
John is a child. Helen is a 
smip iz da m\da. 
dyn iz a tfaild. helin iz a 
child. The baby is a child. John, Helen, and the baby 
tfaild. da beibi iz a tfaild. dyn, helin, and -da beibi 
are children. 
a: tjildran? 
is 
are 
John is a boy. 
Helen and the 
baby are girls. 
one (1) girl 
two (2) girls 
one (1) child 
two (2) children 
Helen is a girl. 
Helen and the 
baby are girls. 
9 
Chapter One (1). 
Mr. Smith is the father of John. Mr. Smith is the 
mist a smip iz da fa: da av dyn. mist a smip iz da 
father of Helen. Mr. Smith is the father of the baby. 
fa: da av helin. mist a smip iz da fa: da av da beibi. 
Mr. Smith is the father of the children. Mrs. Smith is 
mist a smip iz da fa: da av da tfildran. misiz smip iz 
the mother of John, Helen, and the baby. Mr. Smith 
da m\da av dyn, helin, and da beibi. mista smip 
and Mrs. Smith are the parents of the children. John 
and misiz smip a: da pearants av da tfildran. dyn 
is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Smith. Mr. and Mrs. Smith 
iz da SAn av mista and misiz smip. mista and misiz smip 
a 
the 
John is a boy. 
The boy is John. 
Helen and the baby 
are girls. 
The girls are 
Helen and the 
baby. 
of 
The father of the 
children. 
are the parents of John. Helen is the daughter of Mr. 
a: da pearants av dyn. helin iz da do:ta av mista 
and Mrs. Smith. Mr. and Mrs. Smith are the parents 
and misiz smip. mista and misiz smip a: da pearants 
of Helen. The baby is also the daughter of Mr. and 
av helin. da beibi iz a:lsou da da:ta av mista and 
Mrs. Smith. Mr. and Mrs. Smith are the parents of the 
misiz smip. mista and misiz smip a: da pearants av da 
baby. 
beibi. 
Mr. Smith, Mrs. Smith, John, Helen, and the baby are 
mista smip, misiz smip, dyn, helin, and da beibi a: 
a family. There are five (5) persons in the family. 
a fcemili. dear a: faiv pa:snz in da feemili. 
Mr. Smith is a person. Mrs. Smith is a person. John 
mista smip iz a pa:sn. misiz smip iz a pa:sn. dyn 
10 
The First (1st) Chapter, 
is a person. Helen is a person, and the baby is also 
iz d pa.sn. helin iz 3 pa:sn, and d 3 beibi iz o:lsou 
a person. 
3 p3:sn. 
How many persons are there in the family? There are 
hau meni p3:snz a: dea in d3 fcemili? de37 a: 
five (5) persons in the family. Who are the five (5) 
faiv pa:snz in d 3 fcemili. hu: a: da faiv 
persons in the family? They are the father, the mother, 
pd'.snz in d3 fcemili? dei a: da fa:d3, d3 mAda, 
the son, the daughter, and the baby daughter. How 
d3 SAn, 63 da:ta, snd d3 beibi do:ta . hau 
many children are there in the family? There are 
meni tfildran a: dea in d 3 fcemili? deer a: 
three (3) children in the family. Who are the three (3) 
pri: tjildran in d3 fcemili. hu: a: d3 pri: 
children in the family? They are the son, the daughter, 
tfildran in d3 fcemili? dei a: da SAn, d3 da.ta, 
and the baby daughter. How many girls are there in 
3nd da beibi da:ta. hau meni ga:lz a: dea in 
the family? There are two (2) girls in the family. 
da fcemili? dear a: tu: ga:lz in da fcemili. 
Who are the two (2) girls in the family? They are the 
hu: a: da tu: ga:lz in da fcemili? dei a: da 
daughter and the baby daughter. How many boys are 
da:ta and da beibi da:ta . hau meni boiz a: 
there in the family? There is one (1) boy in the family. 
dea in da fcemili? dear iz WAn boi in da fcemili. 
how many? 
How many girls 
are there in the 
family? 
there is 
there are 
There Is one boy 
in the family. 
There are two 
girls in the family. 
11 
Chapter One (1). 
who? 
he 
she 
they 
Who is John? 
He is the son. 
Who is Helen? 
She is the 
daughter. 
Who are Helen 
and the baby? 
They are the 
daughters. 
Who is the boy? The boy is John; he is the son of 
hu: iz dd boif dd bai iz dyn; hi: iz da s\n av 
Mr. Smith. The girl is Helen; she is the daughter of 
mist a smip. da ga:l iz helin; fi: iz da da:ta av 
Mr. Smith. The man is Mr. Smith; he is the father. 
mist a smip. da man iz mist a smip; hi: iz da fa: da. 
The woman is Mrs. Smith; she is the mother. The 
da wuman iz misiz smip; fi: iz da mxda. da 
man and the woman are Mr. and Mrs. Smith; they are 
man and da wuman a: mista and misiz smip; dei a: 
the parents. 
da pearants. 
John is the brother of Helen. Helen is the sister of 
dyn iz da brAda av helin. helin iz da sista av 
man 
woman 
boy 
girl 
baby 
\ persons 
SSSr }■»“"•* 
boy | 
girl >children 
baby J 
John. The baby is the sister of John and Helen. The 
dyn. da beibi iz da sista av dyn and helin. da 
baby and Helen are sisters. John and Helen are 
beibi and helin a: sistaz. dyn and helin a: 
brother and sister. 
brAda and sista. 
Mr. Smith is the husband of Mrs. Smith. Mrs. Smith 
mista smip iz da liAzband av misiz smip. misiz smip 
is the wife of Mr. Smith. Who is Mr. Smith? He is the 
iz da waif av mista smip. hu: iz mista smip f hi: iz da 
husband of Mrs. Smith and the father of the three (3) 
hxzhand av misiz smip and da fa:da av da pri: 
children. Who is Mrs. Smith? She is the wife of Mr. 
tfildran hu: iz misiz smip? fi: iz da waif av mista 
12 
The First (1st) Chapter. 
Smith and the mother of the three (3) children. The 
smip and da m\da av da pri: tjildran. da 
three (3) children are the son, the daughter, and the 
pri: tjildran a: da s\n, da da:ta, and da 
baby daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Smith. The father, the 
beibi do:ta av mista and ntisiz smip. da fa:da, da 
mother, the son, the daughter, and the baby daughter 
niAda, da s.ui, da dj:ta, and da beibi da:ta 
are a family of five (5) persons. 
a: a fee mill av faiv pa:snz. 
EXERCISE A (eksasaiz ei). 
WORDS (wa:dz): 
Mr. Smith is a —. Mrs. Smith is a —. John is a —. 
Helen is a —. Helen and the baby are —. John is a —, 
and Helen and the baby are also —. There — one boy 
in the family. There — two girls in the family. There 
— one father in the family. There — three children in 
the family. John — the son. Mrs. Smith — the mother. 
Mr. and Mrs. Smith — the parents. John, Helen, and 
the baby — the children. Mr. Smith is — father of 
John. Helen is the daughter — Mr. Smith. John, Helen, 
and the baby are — children — Mr. Smith. 
The man is — Smith; he — the father. The boy is 
John; — is the son. The woman is — Smith; — is the 
mother. The girls are Helen and the baby; — are the 
daughters. John is the — of Helen. Helen is the — 
of John. John and Helen are — and —. Mr. Smith 
man 
woman 
Mr. 
Mrs. 
boy 
girl 
baby 
person 
child 
children 
father 
mother 
son 
daughter 
sister 
brother 
13 
Chapter One (1). 
parents 
family 
wife 
husband 
one 
two 
three 
a 
the 
is 
are 
of 
there 
he 
she 
they 
and 
also 
five 
in 
how many? 
who? 
exercise 
word 
is the — of Mrs. Smith. Mrs. Smith is the — of Mr. 
Smith. 
There are five — in the family. The five — in the 
family are the —, the —, the —, the —, and the —. 
— boy is John;-the son. — man is Mr. Smith; 
he is the —. — woman is Mrs. Smith; she is the —. 
— girls are Helen and the baby; they are the —. — 
father and — mother are Mr. and Mrs. Smith; they are 
— parents of the children. 
— is Mr. Smith? He is the father-children. 
— many children are there in the family? There are — 
children in the family. How — boys are there in the 
family? There is — boy in the family.-girls 
are there in the family? There are — girls in the 
family. — are the three children in the family? 
The — children are John,* Helen, and the baby. — is 
the son? The — is John. — are the daughters? — 
daughters — Helen and the baby.-persons — 
there in the family? There — five — in the family. 
— are the — persons in — family? — are — father, — 
mother, — son, and — two daughters. 
EXERCISE B (eksdsais bi:). 
Who is the man?-. Who is the woman? 
-. Who is the boy?-. Who are 
the two girls?-. Who are the 
parents of John, Helen, and the baby?-, —, 
-- How many persons are there in 
14 
The First (1st) Chapter. 
the family?-. Who are the five 
persons?-,-, <-,-,-. 
How many children are there in the family?- 
-. Who are they?-, —,-. 
How many girls are there in the family?- 
-. Who are they?-. How 
many boys are there in the family?-. 
Who is Helen?-. Who is Mrs. 
Smith?--. Who is Mr. Smith? 
15 
