Chapter Ten (10). 
The Tenth (10th) Chapter. 
farm 
THE FARM 
Mr. Smith’s brother is a farmer. 
mists smips br\dd iz d fa:ms. 
He has a farm in 
hi: hcez d fa:m in 
the country. Mr. Smith’s house is not in the country; 
ds kAntri. mists smips haus iz not in dd k\ntri; 
it is in a city. Every summer Mr. Smith and his family 
it iz in d siti. evri saws mists smip snd hiz fee mill 
go to his brother in the country for the summer-holidays. 
gou ts hiz brAds in ds kAntri fs: ds SAinshslidiz. 
In August, when the children do not go to school, it 
in s:gsst, hwen ds tjildrsn du: not gou ts sku:l, it 
is their summer-holidays. Mr. Smith’s summer-holidays 
iz drs SAinshslidiz. mists smips SAinshslidiz 
are not so long as the children’s; they are only two 
a: not sou Istj <tz ds tjildrsnz; dei a: ounli tu: 
weeks. He works more than eleven months a year 
one month’s wi:ks. hi: zvs.ks ms: dean ilevn iiiAnps s jis 
holidays 
two months’ and has two weeks’ holidays, 
holidays hcez tu: zvi:ks hslidiz. 
The children have one month’s holidays in summer, but 
ds tjildrsn heev waii mAnps hslidiz in saihs, bAt 
they do not work eleven months at school. They also 
dei du: nst ws:k i'levn mAnps eet sku:l. dei s:lsou 
have other holidays; they have two weeks’ holidays in 
hcvv a ds hslidiz; dei heev tu: un:ks hslidiz in 
The Tenth (10th) Chapter* 
December and January, two weeks’ holidays in spring, 
di'semba and d^anjuari, tu: wi:ks holidiz in sprit), 
and one week’s holidays in autumn. Mrs. Smith works 
and wAn wi:ks holidiz in o:tam. misiz smip wa:ks 
too; but she does not go away from home to work; she 
tu:; b\t fi: d\z not gou a'wei from houm ta wa:k; fi: 
works in her house. 
wa:ks in ha: haus . 
What is Mr. Smith’s brother? He is a farmer. Where 
hwot is mist a smips br\da? hi: iz a fa:ma . hwear 
is his farm? His farm is in the country. When do 
iz hiz fa:m? his fa:m iz in da k\ntri . hweti du: 
Mr. Smith and his family go to his brother’s farm? 
mist a smip and his fcemili gou ta hiz br\daz fa:m? 
They go there in summer for Mr. Smith’s holidays. Are 
dei gou dea in s\ma fo: mist a smips holidiz. a: 
Mr. Smith’s holidays as long as the children’s? No, 
mist a smips holidiz cps lot} css da tfildransf non, 
he has only two weeks’ holidays in summer; the children 
hi: haz ounli tu: wi:ks holidiz in SAtna; da tfildran 
have one month’s holidays. How many months does 
hcev w\n m\nps holidiz . hau meni m\nps d\s 
Mr. Smith work a year? He works more than eleven 
mista smip wa:k a jiaf hi: wa:ks mo: dcen i'levn 
months a year. Does he work on Sundays? No, on 
niAnps a jia. dAS hi: wa:k on SAndizf nou, on 
Sundays he does not work; Sunday is a holiday. Is 
SAndiz hi: dAS not wa:k; SAtidi iz a holidi. iz 
too = also 
She works too; 
she also works. 
’s 
s’ 
the boy's ball 
(one person) 
the boys’ ball 
(more than one 
person) 
the man’s house 
(one person) 
the men’s house 
(more than one 
person) 
last year 
this year 
next year 
this 
This pencil is not 
good. 
Monday also a holiday? No, Monday is a weekday. 
m\ndi o.lsou 3 holidif nou, mxndi iz 3 wi.kdei. 
Friday is also a weekday. Thursday is a weekday too. 
fraidi iz o:lsou 3 wi:kdei. po.zdi iz 3 wi:kdei tu:. 
Wednesday is a weekday too. All the days of the week 
wenzdi iz 3 wi.kdei tu:. o:l dd deiz 3V d3 wi:k 
are weekdays, except Sunday; Sunday is a holiday. 
a: wi:kdeiz, ik'sept sAndi; SAtidi iz 3 holidi. 
Mr. Smith is at the farm every summer. He has been 
mist3 smip iz cet d3 fa:m evri s\m3. hi: hcez bi:n 
there every summer for many years. He was there 
d€3 evri SAmo jo: meni jisz. hi: wjz dee 
last summer. He will go there this summer. John 
la:st s\m3. hi: wil gou de3 dis SAmo. dyn 
is twelve years old this year. Last year he was eleven 
iz twelv ji3Z ould dis ji3. la:st ji3 hi: woz i'levn 
years old; next year he will be thirteen years old. 
jwz ould; nekst jio hi: wil bi: p3:ti:n ji3Z ould. 
Helen is ten years old this year. Last year she was nine 
helin iz ten jwz ould dis jio. la:st ji3 ji: woz nain 
years old; next year she will be eleven years old. Baby 
jioz ould; nekst jie fi: wil bi: i'levn jiez ould. beibi 
is six months old this year; last year there was no baby. 
iz siks mAnps ould dis jie; la:st jie d£3 woz nou beibi. 
John said to his teacher, “This pencil is not very good; 
dyn sed t3 hiz ti.tfo, “dis pensil iz not veri gud; 
will you give me another one?” 
wil ju: giv mi: 3 'n\do w\n?” 
The Tenth (10th) Chapter. 
John and Helen have been at the farm every summer 
dyn and helin heev bi:n eet da fa:m evri sxma 
for many years. Mr. Smith has had his family with 
jo: nteni jiaz. mist a smip heez heed hiz feemili ivid 
him every year. Were Mr. Smith and his family at 
him evri jia. wa: mist a smip and hiz feemili cet 
the farm last year? Yes, they were. Do they go 
da fa:m la:st jia? jes, dei wa:. du: dei gon 
there every year? Yes, they do; Mr. Smith has been 
dea evri jia? jes, dei du:; mist a smip heez bi:n 
at the farm every summer for many years, and his wife 
cet da fa:m evri sxma jo: meni jiaz, and hiz waif 
and children have been with him. Has Mr. Smith 
and tfildran heev bi:n wid him. heez mist a smip 
had his family with him? Yes, the parents have had 
heed hiz feemili wid him? jes, da pear ants heev heed 
their children with them at the farm. Mr. Smith’s 
- dea tfildran void dem eet da fa:m. mist a smips 
brother is the uncle of John and Helen; his brother’s 
brxda iz di xrjkl av dyn and helin; hiz brxdaz 
wife is their aunt. John is the nephew of Mr. Smith’s 
zvaif iz dea a:nt. dyn iz da nevju: av mista smips 
brother, and Helen is his niece. Has John an uncle? 
hrxda, and helin iz hiz ni:s. heez dyn an xykl? 
Yes, his father’s brother, Mr. Smith, is his uncle, and 
jes, hiz fa:daz brxda, mista smip, iz hiz xykl, and 
John is his nephew. Who is Helen’s aunt? Her aunt 
dyn iz hiz nevju:. hu: iz helinz a:nt? ha: a:nt 
been 
He is, he was. he 
has been. 
They are, they 
were, they have 
been. 
had 
He has, he had, he 
has had. 
They have, they 
had, they have 
had. 
COW 
is the wife of her uncle, Mr. Smith, and Helen is her 
is da waif av ha: Atjkl, mist a smip, and helm is ha: 
niece. 
ni:s. 
At the farm there are many animals. A cow is an 
cet da fa:m dear a: meni cenimals. a kau is an 
animal, and a hen is an animal. From the cows we get 
cenimal, and a hen is an cenimal . fram da kaus wi: get 
milk. From the hens we get eggs. What animals are 
milk. from da hens wi: get egs. hwat cenimals a: 
there at the farm? There are cows and hens. From 
dea cet da fa:m? dear a: kaus and hens. fram 
what animal do we get milk? We get milk from the 
hwat cenimal du: wi: get milk? wi: get milk fram da 
cow. What do we get from the hens? We get eggs from 
kau. hwat du: wi: get fram da hens? wi: get egs fram 
the hens. From where do we get fruit? We get fruit 
da hens. fram hwea du: wi: get fru:tf wi: get fru:t 
from the trees in the garden. From the milk we get 
fram da tri:s in da ga:dn. fram da milk zvi: get 
cream, and from the cream the farmer's wife makes 
kri:m, and fram da kri:m da fa.mas waif meiks 
butter. 
b\ta. 
In the morning, Mr. and Mrs. Smith drink coffee. The 
in da marniy, mist a and misis smip driyk kafi. da 
children do not drink coffee; coffee is not good for 
tfildran du: nat driyk kafi; kafi is nat gud fa: 
The Tenth (10th) Chapter. 
children; they drink milk or tea. Mrs. Smith puts 
tfildran; dei driyk milk o: ti:. misiz smip puts 
cream in her coffee; Mr. Smith puts both cream and 
kri:m in ha: kofi; mista smip puts boup kri.m and 
sugar in his coffee. In England people drink much 
juga in hiz kofi. in iygland pi:pl driyk m.\tf 
tea. The English do not put cream in their tea; they 
ti:. di iyglif du: not put kri:m in dea ti:; dei 
put milk in their tea. When John comes home from 
put milk in dea ti:. hwen dyn k\mz houm from 
school, he puts his books away in his room. 
sku:l, hi: puts hiz buks a'wei in hiz ru:m. 
What do Mr. and Mrs. Smith drink in the morning? 
hwot du: mista and misiz smip driyk in da mo.niy? 
They drink coffee. Who makes the coffee? Mrs. Smith 
dei driyk kofi. hu: meiks da kofi? misiz smip 
makes it. What do they put in their coffee? Mr. Smith 
meiks it. hwot du: dei put in dea kofi? mista smip 
puts both cream and sugar in his coffee, but Mrs. Smith 
puts boup kri:m and Juga in hiz kofi, bAt misiz smip 
puts only cream in her coffee. What do the English 
puts ounli kri:m in ha: kofi. hwot du: di iyglif 
put in their tea? They put milk in their tea. Do the 
put in dea ti:? dei put milk in dea ti:. du: da 
children drink coffee? No, they do not drink coffee; 
tfildran driyk kofi? nou, dei du: not driyk kofi; 
coffee is not good for children. They get tea or milk 
kofi iz not gud fo: tfildran. dei get ti: o: milk 
get 
gets 
I get 
you get 
he gets 
she gets 
it gets 
we get 
you get 
they get 
makes? 
Who makes the 
coffee? 
Does Mrs. Smith 
make the coffee? 
egg 
to drink. Who makes the butter at the farm? The 
ta driyk. hu: meiks da bxta cet da fa:mf da 
farmer’s wife makes it. From what does she make it? 
fa: mas waif meiks it. from hwjt (Ias fi: meik it? 
She makes it from cream. Where does she get the 
fi: meiks it from kri:m. hwea d\z fi: get da 
cream from? She gets it from the milk. 
kri:m from? fi: gets it from da milk. 
WORDS: 
farmer 
farm 
holiday 
work 
too 
this 
next 
uncle 
aunt 
nephew 
niece 
animal 
cow 
hen 
get 
milk 
cream 
EXERCISE A. 
Mr. Smith’s house is in*-. In August, it is the 
Mr. Smith’s brother is the children’s uncle; his wife 
The Tenth (10th) Chapter. 
eleven years old. 
butter 
egg 
make 
drink 
coffee 
tea 
put 
sugar 
had 
been 
EXERCISE B. 
she work? .. . Does Mr. Smith go to his brother’s 
