Chapter Eleven (11). 
The Eleventh (11th) Chapter. 
THE LAKE 
shall 
will 
I shall 
you will 
he will 
she will 
it will 
we shall 
you will 
they will 
One day at the farm Mr. Smith said to his brother 
wah dei cat da fa:m mist a smip sed ta his brxda 
George, “To-day I shall go to the lake with the children.” 
dy’.d^, “ta'dei ai feel gou ta da leik wid da tfildran.” 
“Yes,” said his brother, “it will be good for them.” 
“jes” sed his brAda, “it wil bi: gud fa: dem.” 
The lake is only small. It is near the farm; it is only 
da leik iz ounli smo.l. it iz nia da fa:rn; it iz ounli 
five minutes from the farm to the lake. The farm is 
faiv minits from da fa:m ta da leik. da fa:m iz 
not near the city; it is two hours from the city to the 
not nia da siti; it iz tu: auaz from da siti ta da 
farm. The lake is not far from the farm; it is near 
fa:m. da leik iz not fa: from da farm; it iz nia 
the farm. The farm is far from the city; it is not near 
da fa:m. da fa:m iz fa: from da siti; it iz not nia 
the city. England is far from Sweden, but England is 
da siti. ifjgland iz fa: from swi:dn, bAt iygland iz 
near France. 
nia fra: ns. 
Between the farm and the lake there are fields. In 
bi'twi:n da fa:m and da leik dear a: fi:ldz. in 
some fields there is grass, and in other fields there is 
SAin fi.ldz dear iz gra:s, and in Ada fi:ldz dear iz 
The Eleventh (11th) Chapter. 
com. In summer the animals are in the fields; there 
ko:n. in samo di cenimalz a: in dd fi:ldz; dedr 
are cows in the fields, and there are also horses in the 
a: kauz in dd fi:ldz, dnd dedr a: o.lsou ho:siz in dd 
fields. The cows and the horses eat the grass in the 
fi:ldz. dd kauz dnd dd ho:siz i:t dd gra:s in dd 
fields. When the cows eat much grass, they give good 
fi:ldz. hiven dd kauz i:t m\tj gra:$, dei giv gud 
milk. The hens eat grass too, and we eat the hens’ eggs. 
milk. dd henz i:t gra:s tu:, dnd wi: i:t dd henz egz. 
The hens also eat corn. When the hens get much corn 
dd henz o.lsou i:t ko:n. hwen dd henz get m.\tf ko:n 
to eat, we get many eggs. 
tu i:t , wi: get meni egz . 
Where is the lake? The lake is near the farm. Is the 
hwedr iz dd leik? dd leik iz nid dd fa:m. iz dd 
farm near the city? No, the farm is not near the city; 
fa:m nid dd siti? nou, dd fa:m iz not nid dd siti; 
it is far from the city. Is England far from France? 
it iz fa: from dd siti. iz iy gland fa: from fra:ns? 
No, England is near France. What is between the lake 
nou, iy gland iz nid fra:ns. hwot iz bi'twi:n dd leik 
and the farm? There are fields between the lake and 
and da fa:m? dear a: fi:ldz bi'twi.n da leik and 
the farm. What animals are there in the fields? There 
da fa:m. hwot cenimalz a: dea in da fi.ldzf dear 
are cows and horses in the fields. What do they eat? 
a: kauz and ho.siz in da fi:ldz. hwot du: dei i:t? 
how? 
how many? 
how long? 
How do we swim? 
We swim with our 
arms and legs. 
How many horses 
are there at the 
farm? 
There are four 
horses at the 
farm. 
How long have 
you walked? 
I have walked for 
ten minutes. 
They eat the grass in the fields. 
bei i:t bd gra:s in bd fi:ldz. 
There is a road from the farm to the lake. There is 
bear iz d roud from bd fa:m to bd leik. beor iz 
also a road from the city to the farm. The road from 
o:lsoud roud from bd siti td bd fa:m. bd roud from 
the farm to the lake is short. It goes through the fields. 
bd fa:m td bd leik iz fo:t. it gouz pru: bd fi:ldz. 
The children go through the door of the house into the 
bd tjildrdn gou pru: bd do: ev bd haus intd bd 
garden. Does the road go through the farm? No, one 
ga:dn. d\z bd roud gou pru: bd fa:m? nou,WAn 
road goes to the farm from the city, and another road 
roud gouz td bd fa:m from bd siti, dnd d'nAbd roud 
goes from the farm to the lake. What does the road 
gouz from bd fa:m td bd leik . hwot dAz bd roud 
to the lake go through? It goes through the fields. 
td bd leik gou pru:? it gouz pru: bd fi:ldz. 
How do the children get from the house into the garden? 
hau du: bd tjildrdn get from bd haus intd bd ga:dn? 
They go through the door; but sometimes John goes 
bei gou pru: bd do:; bAt SAmtaimz dyn gouz 
through the window. How do they get from the farm 
pru: bd windou. hau du: bei get from bd fa:m 
to the lake? They go by the road through the fields. 
td bd leik? bei gou bai bd roud pru: bd fi:ldz. 
How do Mr. Smith and his family get from the farm 
hau du: imsto smip ond hiz fcemili get from bd fa:m 
The Eleventh (11th) Chapter. 
to the city? They go by the road to the city. There 
to dd sitif dei gou bai dd roud td dd siti. dedr 
is water in the lake. In summer the water is warm. 
is wo:td in dd leik. in SAind dd wo:td is wo :m. 
In winter it is cold, and sometimes there is ice on the 
in zvintd it iz kould, dnd SAmtaimz dedr iz ais on dd 
lake. But when it is summer, the water is warm. When 
leik. bAt hwen it iz SAmd, dd wo:td iz wo:m. hwen 
the children are very warm, they drink cold water, but 
dd tjildrdn a: veri wo:m, dei driyk kould wo:td, bAt 
the water in the lake is not good to drink. Mr. Smith 
dd wo:td in dd leik iz not gud td dritjk. mistd smip 
takes his children with him to the lake. John takes a 
tciks hiz tjildrdn wid him td dd leik. dyn teiks d 
ball with him to play with in the water, and Helen 
bo: l wid him td plei wid in do wo:td, dnd helin 
takes her doll with her. 
teiks hd: dol wid hd:. 
What is in the lake? There is water in the lake. Do 
hwot iz in dd leikf dedr iz wo:td in dd leik. du: 
the children drink the water of the lake? No, they 
dd tjildrdn drirjk dd wo:td dv dd leikf nou, dei 
do not, but the horses and the cows do. What is on thTe 
du: not, bAt dd ho:siz dnd dd kauz du:. hwot iz on dd 
lake in winter? Sometimes there is ice on the lake in 
leik in wintdf SAmtaimz dedr iz ais on dd leik in 
winter. Does Mr. Smith take his children with him to 
wintd. dAZ mistd smip teik hiz tjildrdn wid him td 
-ed 
He learns, he 
learned, he has 
learned. 
They learn, they 
learned, they have 
learned. 
the lake? Yes, he takes them with him. Does he take 
da leik? jes, hi: teiks dem wid him. d\z hi: teik 
his brother with him? No, his brother has no time 
hiz hr Ada wid him? nou, hiz hr\dd h<zz nou taim 
to go to the lake; he works every day in summer, 
td gou td da leik; hi: wa:ks evri dei in SAma, 
except on Sundays. What do the children take with 
ik'sept an SAndiz. hwat du: da tjildran teik wid 
them to play with? John takes his ball, and Helen 
dem ta plei wid? dyn teiks hiz ba:l, and helin 
takes her doll. Does Helen take her doll with her into 
teiks ha: dal . dAZ helin teik ha: dal wid ha: inta 
the water? No, it is not good for her doll to get into 
da wa:ta? nou, it iz nat gud fa: ha: dal ta get inta 
the water. What do Mr. Smith and the children do at 
da wa:ta. hwat du: mist a smip and da tjildran du: cet 
the lake? They swim in the water. Do they all swim? 
da leik? dei swim in da wa:ta. du: dei a:l swim? 
Yes, they all swim, except Baby, but Helen is not a very 
jes, dei a:l swim, ik'sept beibi, bAt helin iz nat a veri 
good swimmer; she has learned to swim this summer. 
gud swima; fi: hcez la:nd ta swim dis SAma. 
Has John learned to swim this summer, too? No, he 
hcez dyn la:nd ta swim dis SAma, tu:? nou, hi: 
learned to swim last summer, and he is a very good 
la:nd ta swim la:st SAma, and hi: iz a veri gud 
swimmer. Is the water warm enough to swim in? 
swima. iz da wa:ta wa:m i'nAf ta swim in? 
The Eleventh (11th) Chapter. 
Yes, in August it is warm enough, but in spring it is 
jes, in o:gast it is wo:m in\f, b\t in sprig it is 
not warm enough; it is too cold in spring to swim in. 
not wo:m tn\f; it is tu: kould in sprig ta swim in. 
Is the baby big enough to learn to swim? No, she is 
is da beibi big fn\f ta la:n ta swim? nou, ji: is 
too small to learn to swim. 
tu: smo:l ta lain ta swim. 
This morning John asked his father, “Father, when 
dis mo: nig dyn a:skt his fa: da, (C fa:da, hwen 
will you take us to the lake?” “I shall take you there 
wil ju: teik as ta da leik?” “ai fed teik ju: dea 
to-day,” his father answered. “Will you come with us, 
ta'dei” his fa.da arnsad. “wil ju: kAin wid as, 
George?” he asked his brother. “No,” the farmer 
dy:d$?” hi: u:skt his brAda. “nou” da fa.rna 
answered, “I have no time to-day, but ask me on 
(i.nsad. “ai hcev nou taim ta'dei, bAt a:sk mi: on 
Sunday, and I shall answer ‘yes’.” 
SAiidi, and ai feel a:nsa *jes 9 .” 
John has asked his father every day for a week, “Will 
dyn hces a:skt his fa:da ezri dei fo: a wi:k , “zvil 
you take us to the lake to-day?” and every day his father 
ju: teik as ta da leik ta'dei?” and evri dei his fa:da 
has answered, “No, not to-day;” but this morning his 
lues a:nsad, “non, not ta'deibAt dis mo:nig his 
father answered, “Yes, to-day we shall all go to the 
fa:da a.nsad, t( jes, ta'dei wi: feel o:l gou ta da 
-ed 
He asks, he asked, 
he has asked. 
They ask, they 
asked, they have 
asked. 
-ed 
He answers, he 
answered, he has 
answered. 
They answer, they 
answered, they 
have answered. 
-ed 
He walks, he 
walked, he has 
walked. 
They walk, they 
walked, they have 
walked. 
lake.” The children and their father will walk to the 
leik. 33 da tfildran and dea fa:da wil wa:k ta da 
lake. What is “to walk”? To walk is to go on foot. 
leik. hwat iz “ta wa:k 33 ? ta wa:k iz ta gou an fut. 
The baby does not walk; she is not big enough to walk; 
da beibi dxz nat wa:k; fi: iz nat big i'nxf ta wa:k; 
town = city 
but her father takes her on his arm. 
bxt ha: fa:da teiks ha: an hiz a:m. 
Yesterday the children walked for two hours through 
jestadi da tfildran wa:kt fa: tu: auaz pru: 
the fields. How long has John walked to-day? He 
da fi:ldz. hau lay hcez dyn wa:kt ta'dei? hi: 
has walked for only ten minutes to-day, five minutes 
hcez wa:kt fa: ounli ten minits ta'dei, faiv minits 
to the lake and five minutes back to the house. After 
ta da leik and faiv minits bcek ta da haus. a:fta 
the summer-holidays the family will go back to town 
da sxmahalidiz da fcemili wil gou bcek ta taun 
(to the city), and the children will go back to school. 
(ta da siti), and da tfildran .wil gou bcek ta sku:l. 
When will they go back to town? They will go back 
hwen ivil del gou bcek ta taun? dei wil gou bcek 
to the city in August. 
ta da siti in a:gast. 
What does Mr. Smith say to his brother? He says, 
hwat dxz mista smip sei ta hiz brxdaf hi: sez, 
“Come with us to the lake to-day, George!” And what 
“kxm wid xs ta da leik ta'dei, d^a:d^! 33 and hwat 
The Eleventh (11th) Chapter. 
does his brother answer? He answers, “Not to-day, 
d\z hiz br\dd a:nsdf hi: a:nsaz, “not ta'dei, 
but ask me on Sunday, and I shall answer ‘yes’.” 
b\t a:sk mi: on SAndi, and ai feel a:ns3 *jes 9 .” 
What does John ask his father? He asks, “Will you 
hwot d\z d$on a:sk hiz fa:ddf hi: a:sks, “wil ju: 
take us to the lake to-day?” And what does his father 
teik as td da leik ta'dei f” and hwot dAZ hiz fa:da 
answer? He answers, “Yes, go and take your ball and 
a:nsaf hi: a:nsaz, “jes, gou and teik jua bo:l and 
your doll. To-day we shall all go to the lake and 
jua dol. ta'dei wi: feel o:l gou ta da leik and 
swim.” 
swim” 
EXERCISE A. 
WORDS: 
lake 
near 
far 
field 
corn 
horse 
eat 
road 
through 
by 
town 
sometimes 
water 
ice 
take 
swim 
swimmer 
enough 
ask 
answer 
walk 
back 
how? 
get 
shall 
swim? Yes, he learned-last summer; he is a very 
road to the lake. “When will you take us to the lake?” 
EXERCISE B. 
What does Mr. Smith’s brother answer, when Mr. Smith 
