Chapter Twelve (12). 
The Twelfth (12th) Chapter. 
MEALS 
In England most people have three meals every day. 
in it/gland moust pi:pi hcev pri: mi:lz evri dei. 
We also eat three meals a day. The first meal of the 
wi: 'd:Isou i:t pri: mi:lz a dei. da fa:st mi:l av da 
day we call breakfast. In England people eat much 
dei wi: ko:l brekfast. in it/gland pi:pl i:t mAtj 
bread 
more for breakfast than in other countries. In many 
mo: jo: brekfast dcen in \da k\ntriz. in meni 
countries people have only bread and butter with coffee 
k\ntriz pi:pi hcev ounli bred and b\ta wid kofi 
or tea, but in England they have fish, eggs and bacon, 
o: ti:, bAt in it/gland dei hcev fij, egz and beikan, 
and sometimes porridge, too, for breakfast. After this, 
and SAmtaimz porid$, tu: } fo: brekfast. a:fta dis, 
they have tea or coffee with bread and butter. Some- 
dei hcev ti: o: kofi wid bred and bAta. SAm- 
porridge 
times they put marmalade on their bread and butter. 
taimz dei put ma.maleid on dea bred and bAta. 
We make marmalade from one of the fruits. 
wi: meik ma.rnaleid from WAn av da fru.ts. 
The next meal of the day is lunch, at one o’clock. Some 
da nekst mi:l av da dei iz lAnf, cet wau a'klok. SAm 
people eat lunch at noon (twelve o’clock). For lunch 
pi:pl i:t L\nf cet nu:n (twelv a'klok). fo: lAnf 
97 
Chapter Twelve (12). 
most English people eat some meat and vegetables. The 
moust it/glif pi:pi i:t saw mi:t and vedytablz. da 
bacon 
meat of cows is beef. Vegetables are plants. A potato 
mi:t dv kauz iz bi:f. vedytzblz a: pla:nts. 3 pa'teitou 
is a vegetable; a carrot is a vegetable. At seven o’clock 
iz a vedytabl; a karat iz a ved^itabl. at sevn a'khk 
we have dinner. Dinner is the biggest meal of the 
wi: hav dina. dina is da bigist mi:l av da 
one potato 
two potatoes 
day. For dinner most people have meat and vegetables 
dei. fa: dina moust pi:pi hav mi:t and vedytablz 
first. After the meat they sometimes have fruit. 
fa:st. a:fta da mi:t dei SAmtaimz hav fru:t. 
-AH 
How many meals do we eat a day? We eat three meals 
hau mem mi:lz du: wi: i:t a dei? wi: i:t pri: mi:lz 
carror^]^ 
a day, but some people also drink tea between the meals. 
a dei, bAt SAm pi:pi a:lsou drirjk ti: bi'twi:n da mi:lz. 
What are the three big meals of the day? They are 
hwat a: da pri: big mi:lz av da deif dei a: 
breakfast in the morning, lunch at noon or at one o’clock, 
brekfast in da ma:niy, /am/ at nu:n a: at WAn a'khk, 
and dinner in the evening at seven o’clock. Do all 
and dina in di i:vnirj at sevn a'khk. du: o:l 
people have dinner in the evening? No, some people 
pi:pi hav dina in di i:vniyf nou, saw pi: pi 
( < 2 ]) 
have dinner at one o’clock, and then they call the 
hav dina at WAn a'khk, arid den dei ko:l di 
potato 
evening meal supper. For supper people have bread 
i'.vnivj mi:l SApa. fa: sApa pi: pi hav bred 
98 
The Twelfth (12th) Chapter. 
and butter, sometimes with cold meat. 
and b\ta, s \rntaimz wid kould mi:t. 
What are vegetables? Vegetables are plants; potatoes 
hwat a: vedytablz? vedytablz a: pla:nts; pa'teitouz 
and carrots are vegetables. Food is what we eat. Meat 
and karats a: ved^itablz. fu:d iz hwot wi: i:t. mi:t 
is food, bread is food, everything we eat is food. A 
iz fu:d, bred iz fu:d, cvripiy id: i:t iz fu:d. a 
tree is a thing; a house is a thing. A man is not a 
tri: iz a piy; a bans iz a pirj. a man iz not a 
thing, a man is a person. A boy is not a thing, a boy 
piy, a man iz a pa:sn. a bai iz not a pig, a bai 
is a person, too. 
iz a pa:sn, tu:. 
When it was time to have a meal, the mother went to 
hwen it waz taim ta hav a mi:l, da m\da went ta 
the door and called, “John and Helen, where are you? 
da da: and ka:ld, C( dyn and helin, hwear a: ju:f 
Come in, it is dinner-time.” But the children were not 
k \iri in, it iz dinataim” b\t da tfildran wa: not 
in the garden. The mother called again, “John and 
in da ga:dn. da m\da ka:ld a'gein, “dyn and 
Helen — it is dinner-time!” 
helin — it iz dinataim /” 
She went back into the house again and said to her 
fi: went bak inta da haus a'gein and sed ta ha: 
husband, “Allan, will you go out into the fields and see 
liAzband, u alan, wil ju: gou aut inta da firldz and si: 
what? 
what 
What does he say? 
I take what you 
give me. 
What we eat is 
food. 
Chapter Twelve (12). 
where the children are? It is dinner-time. They do 
hwea da tjildran a:? it iz dinataim. dei du: 
not hear me when I call. I have called three times. 
rut hid mi: hwen ai ko:l. ai hcev ko:ld pri: taim 2 . 
They are not good children; every day at lunch-time 
dei a: not gud tjildran; evri dei cet l ah ft aim 
do 
dyes 
did 
The teacher does 
not see the child¬ 
ren every day. 
The children 
do not go to 
school every day. 
He did not see 
them yesterday. 
They did not go to 
school yesterday. 
and dinner-time, they are not here and do not hear me.” 
and dinataim , dei a: not hia and du: not Jtia mi:” 
Mr. Smith went out, but when he came back, the 
mista smip went aut, b\t hwen hi: keim bcek, da 
children were not with him. “I called many times, but 
tjildran wa: not zvid him. (( ai ko.ld meni taimz, b\t 
they were not there.” “Oh, where are the children?” 
dei zva: not dea” “ou, hwear a: da tjildran?” 
the mother said and went into the house — and there 
da MAda sed and went inta da haus — and dea 
were the children! 
zva: da tjildran! 
They had been in their rooms in the house when their 
dei heed bi:n in dea ru:mz in da haus hwen dea 
mother called. “Have you called, father and mother?” 
m\da ko.ld. “hcev ju: ko:ld, fa: da and m\da?” 
they asked. What did the mother go out into the 
dei a:skt. hwot did da m\da gou aut inta da 
garden for? She went out to call the children. Did 
ga:dn fo:f ji: went aut ta ko:l da tjildran. did 
had been 
He had been. 
They had been. 
100 
she see them? No, she did not see them, they were 
ji: si: ' deni? nou. Ji: did not si: dem, dei wa: 
The Twelfth (12th) Chapter. 
not there. What did the mother do when she did 
not dea. hwot did da niAda du: hwen fi: did 
not see the children? She said to the father, “Will 
not si: dd tjildran? fi: sed ta da fa:da, “wil 
you go out into the fields and call the children?” 
ju: gou aut inta da fi.ldz and ko:l da tjildran?” 
Did the children hear their parents call them? No, 
did da tjildran hia dea pear ants ko:l demt nou, 
they did not. Where had the children been? They 
dev did not. hwea heed da tfildran bi:nt dei 
had been in their rooms. How many meals a day do 
heed bi:n in dea ru:mz. hau meni mi.lz a dei du: 
most people have? They have three meals a day. 
moust pi:pl hcev? dei hcev pri: mi.lz a dei. 
What is food? Everything we eat is food. Bread is 
hwot iz fu:df evripirj wi: i:t iz fu:d. bred iz 
food; meat is food. Is a man a thing? No, a man 
fu:d; mi:t iz fu:d. iz a mcen a piy? nou, a mcen 
is not a thing, a man is a person. When do people 
iz not a piy, a mcen iz a pa:sn. hwen du: pi:pi 
have tea? Oh, some have tea many times a day. 
hcev ti:f ou, s\m hcev ti: meni taimz a dei. 
Most people have tea in the afternoon at four o’clock 
moust pi:pl hcev ti: in di a:fta'nu:n cet fo: a'klok 
or five o’clock (at tea-time). Some people have coffee 
o: faiv e'khk (cet ti:taim). s\m pi:pi hcev kofi 
after lunch and after dinner. 
a:fta l\nj and a:fta dina. 
sun 
101 
Chapter Twelve (12). 
bed 
comes? 
does ... come? 
What comes? 
Who comes? 
Does the man 
come? 
do you have? 
have you? 
Do you have 
dinner at seven 
o’clock? 
I do not have 
dinner at seven 
o’clock. 
Have you walked 
to the lake? 
I have not walked 
•to the lake. 
When is it morning? It is morning from the time the 
hwen is it mo:my? it is mo:niy from do taim do 
sun is up till (until) noon. When is noon? Noon is 
SAti is Ap til (ay? til) nu:n. hwen is nu:n? nu:n is 
at twelve o’clock. When is the afternoon? The after- 
cet twelv o'klok. hwen is di a:fto'nu:n? di a:fto- 
noon is from lunch-time until tea-time. What do we 
'nu:n is from lAnftaim \ritil ti:taim. hwot du: wi: 
call the time after tea-time? The time after tea-time 
ko:l do taim a:ftd ti:taim? dd taim a:ftd ti:taim 
we call the evening. What comes after the evening? 
wi: ko:l di i:vniy. hwot kwms a:ftd di i:vniy? 
After the evening comes the night. At night people 
a:ftd di i:vniy kwms dd naif. cet nait pi: pi 
sleep. They sleep in beds. The children go to bed at 
sli:p. dei sli:p in beds. dd tjildrdn gon to‘bed (et 
eight o’clock in the evening. Then their mother puts 
eit d'khk in di i:vniy. den dro mAdd puts 
them to bed and says, “Good night, John and Helen, 
dem td bed end ses, “gud nait , dyn end helm . 
sleep well!” The parents do not go to bed till eleven 
sli:p well” de prevents du: not gou to bed til i'levn 
o’clock. 
e'klok. 
What do John and Helen have for breakfast? Some- 
hwot du: dyn end helin hcev fo: brekfost? s\m- 
times they have porridge and milk for breakfast. Do 
taims dei hcev porid$ dnd milk fo: brekfost. du: 
102 
The Twelfth (12th) Chapter. 
the children have coffee in the afternoon? No, they 
da tjildrdn hcev kofi in di a:fta'nu:nf non, dei 
do not, but sometimes, when they come from school 
du: njt, b\t s/untaims, hzven dei k\m from sku:l 
in the afternoon, they have^tea with bread and butter. 
in di a:fta'nu:n, dei hcev ti: und bred and b\ta. 
EXERCISE A. 
We have three big — a day. The first meal of the day 
is —. Some people have — in the morning with — 
and butter, and the children sometimes have — and 
milk. The English eat more for — than most people; 
they have — and eggs, and sometimes —. They drink 
tea and have bread and butter with —. At one o’clock 
people have —. In some countries most people — bread 
and butter for lunch, but in England many people 
have — and — for lunch. 
— and — are vegetables. The third big meal of the 
day is —. For dinner we have — and vegetables. The 
meat of cows is —. At twelve o’clock it is —. The 
time between lunch-time and tea-time is the —. Some¬ 
times people have dinner at one o’clock, and then they 
call the meal at seven o’clock —. The time after tea- 
time is the —. — is what we eat. A tree is a —, 
and a house is also a —, but a man is not a —; a man 
is a person. 
When did the mother — the children? The mother 
went to the door and — John and Helen before dinner. 
Did the children — their mother call? No, the children 
WORDS: 
breakfast 
meal 
bread 
fish 
bacon 
porridge 
marmalade 
lunch 
vegetable 
potato 
carrot 
dinner 
meat 
beef 
supper 
food 
everything 
thing 
103 
Chapter Twelve (12). 
call 
hear 
again 
see 
evening 
noon 
did 
afternoon 
sleep 
bed 
till 
until 
out 
sun 
up 
did not — their mother call. What — the mother do, 
when the children did not come? When they did not 
come, she went into the house — and said to her hus¬ 
band, “I do not — the children. Will you go — and 
see — they are?” — do the children go to bed? The 
children go to — at eight o’clock. — puts the children 
to bed? Their mother puts them to bed and says, 
“Good night, children, — well!” — do the parents 
go to bed? The parents do not go to bed — eleven 
o'clock. 
EXERCISE B. 
How many meals do most people have a day? ... What 
are the three big meals of the day? ... What do they 
have in England for breakfast? ... What do people in 
some other countries have for breakfast? ... What do 
English people have for lunch? ... What do we call 
potatoes and carrots? ... Do all people have dinner at 
seven o’clock? ... Are trees and houses things or per¬ 
sons? . . . Where had the children been when their 
mother called them? ... What did they say when they 
came from their rooms? ... When is the afternoon? ... 
What do we call the time after tea-time? ... When do 
the children go to bed? ... 
104 
