Chapter Thirteen (13). 
The Thirteenth (13th) Chapter. 
LANGUAGES 
English is a language, Swedish is a language, and 
iyglif iz a Iceygwid 3, swi:dif iz a Iceygwid 3, and 
French is a language. English, Swedish, and French 
frenj is a Iceygwid 3. iyglifswi:di{, and frenf 
are languages. The people in England speak the English 
a: Iceygwidyz. da pi:pi in iygland spi:k di iyglif 
language; they speak English. The people in Sweden 
Iceygzvid 3; dei spi:k iyglif. da pi: pi in swi:dn 
speak the Swedish language; they speak Swedish. The 
spi:k da swi:dif Iceygwid 3; dei spi:k swi:dij. da 
people in France speak the French language; they speak 
pi:pi in frct:n£ spi:k da frenf iceygwid 3; dei spi:k 
French. A language has many words. “Man” is a 
frenf. a Iceygwid 3 hcez meni wa:dz. “mcen” iz a 
word; “go” is a word. The word “read” has four 
iva:d; “gou” iz a zva:d. da wa:d “ri:d” hcez fa: 
letters: r-e-a-d; “r” is a letter; tf e” is a letter; “a” is 
let as: a:-i:-ei-di:; “a:” iz a let a: “i:” iz a let a; “ei” iz 
a letter; “d” is a letter. 
a leta ; “di:” iz a let a. 
What language do people speak in Norway? In Norway 
hzvat Iceygwid 3 du: pi:pi spi:k in na:weif in na:wei 
they speak Norwegian. Where do they speak the 
dei spi:k na:'wi:d^an. hwea du: dei spi:k di 
2/1 
The English 
alphabet: 
a [ei] 
b [bi:] 
c [ii:] 
d [di:] 
e [i:] 
f [ef] 
g 
h [eitf ] 
i [ at] 
j [dpi] 
k [kei] 
1 [el] 
m [em] 
n [en] 
o [ou] 
P [pi:] 
q [kju:] 
r [a:] 
s [«] 
t [ti:] 
u [ju: ] 
V [vi:] 
w [dAbl ju: 
x [ eks ] 
y [ wai ] 
z \sed] 
English language? They speak the English language 
iijglif Icnjgwid$? dei spi:k di irjglif Icpygwid^ 
in many countries, for example: in England, in North 
in meni kxntriz, fdr ig'za:mpl: in iygland , in no:p 
America, and in Australia. How many words has the 
a'merikd, and in D.'streiljd. hau meni iva:dz hcez di 
English language? They say it has 250,000 (two hundred 
iijglij Iccijgzvid^f dei sei it Inez tu: JiAndrid 
and fifty thousand) words. How many letters are 
and fifti pauzand zva:dz. hau meni letaz a: 
there in the word “woman”? There are five letters 
dea in da zva:d “zvuman”? dear a: faiv letaz 
in the word “woman”. 
in da wa:d “zvuman”. 
How many letters has the alphabet? The English 
hau meni letaz hcez di celfabit? di iyglif 
alphabet has twenty-six ( 26 ) letters. Some alphabets 
celfabit hcez twentfsiks letaz. s\m celfabits 
have more than twenty-six letters. 
hcev ma: dcen tzventi'siks letaz. 
Can the children in the Swedish schools speak English? 
keen da tfildran in da szvi:dif sku:lz spi:k iyglij? 
No, not the small children, but the big children learn 
nou, not da smo:l tfildran, bAt da big tfildran lain 
to speak English. Can John speak Danish? No, the 
ta spi:k iyglif. keen dyn spi:k deiniff non, da 
children in England cannot speak Danish; they do 
cannot = can not tfildran in iygland kcenot spi:k deinif; dei du: 
The Thirteenth (13th) Chapter. 
not learn to speak Danish in the English schools. 
not la:n ta spi:k deinij in di iyglif sku:lz. 
Can the baby walk? No, she cannot walk, she is not 
keen da beibi wo:k? nou, fi: kcenot wo:k, ji: iz not 
big enough to walk. The mother says that she cannot 
big tn\f ta wo:k. da mAda sez dat ji: kcenot 
see the children; the mother says, “I cannot see the 
si: da tfildran; da mAda sez, “ai kcenot si: da 
children.” The father says that they are in the fields; 
tfildran” da fa:da sez dat dei a: in da fi:ldz; 
he says, “They are in the fields.” John said that lie 
hi: sez, <( dei a: in da fi:ldz” dyn sed dat hi: 
had been in his room; John said, “I have been in my 
heed bi:n in hiz ru:m; dyn sed, “ai hcev bi:n in mai 
room.” 
ru:m” 
Some words say that a person or a thing does or is 
sam wa:dz sei dat a pa:sn o: a pig dAZ o: iz 
something, for example: The man goes; the house is in 
SAmpirj, jar ig l za:mpl: da meen gouz; da haus iz in 
the garden; the mother makes the food; the children 
da ga:dn; da mAda meiks da fu:d; da tfildran 
play in the garden. The words we have here we call 
plei in da ga:dn. da wa:dz wi: hcev hia wi: ko:l 
“verbs”. The words “go”, “play”, “make” are verbs. 
“va:bz”. da wa:dz “gou”, “plei”, “meik” a: ve:bz. 
Are there other verbs? Yes, there are many other 
a: dee Ada va:bzf jes, dear a: meni Ada 
4/2 
this 
these 
This boy is 
English. 
These children are 
English. 
everything 
something 
Can you say 
everything in 
English? 
No, but now I can 
say something in 
English. 
verbs. There is a word for everything we do, and 
vd:bz. dear iz a zva:d fa: evripiy wi: duand 
these words we 
call “verbs”. 
“Give” 
is 
an English 
di:z zva:dz wi: 
ka:l “va:bz”. 
“gw” 
iz 
an iygli / 
verb; this verb 
is English. 
“Give” and 
“take” are 
va:b; dis va:b 
iz iyglif . 
“giv” 
and 
“teik” A: 
English verbs; these verbs are 
English. 
iyglif va:bz: 
di:z va:bz a: 
iyglif. 
We shall now write some of the English verbs we have 
zvi: feel nan rait saju av di iyglif va:bz wi: hepv 
learned till now: I learn, they call, he plays, we ask, 
la:nd til nan: ai h:n, dei ka:l, hi: pleiz, wi: a:s/c, 
you answer, she has, and many others. All these verbs 
ju: a:nsd, fi: Inez, and meni Adas. a:l di:z va:bz 
say that a person does or is something at this time, 
sei dat a pa:sn d\z a: iz s.unpiy <et dis taim, 
to-day, or now. But when we say: I learned, they have 
ta'dei, a: nan. b \t hwen wi: sei: ai la:nd, dei hcev 
called, he played, we have asked, you answered, she 
ka:ld, hi: plcid, zvi: hcev. a:skt, ju: a:nsad, fi: 
had, we do not say that the persons do something now, 
herd, zvi: du: not sei dat da pa:snz du: s\mpiy nan, 
at this time, but at another time, a time before now: 
cet dis taim, b\t cet a'n\da taim, a taim bi'fa: nau: 
we asked her yesterday; last year they were at the 
wi: a:sht Jia: jest ad i; la:st jia dei wa: cet da 
farm. In most of these verbs we put -ed after the word 
fa :m. m in oust av ‘ di:z * va:bz wi: put i:di: a:fta da wa:d 
The Thirteenth (13th) Chapter. 
when the time is not now, but a time before now. 
Invert dd taim iz rut nan, b\t j taint bi'fj: nan. 
But in some of the verbs we do not put -ed after the 
b\t in saw dv do vd'.bz wi: du: lut put i:di: a:ftj dd 
word; we say: I give to-day, but: I gave yesterday. We 
wd:d; wi: sei: ai giv td'dei, b\t: ai geiv jcstddi. wi: 
also say: I have learned to read at school, but: I have 
j'.lsou sei: ai hcev h:nd td ri:d cut sku:l, b\t: ai hcev 
given her the pencil. I take the book now. I took the 
givj^ lid: dd pensil. ai teik dd buk nan. ai tuk dd 
book yesterday. I have taken the book home with me. 
buk jcstddi. ai hcev teikn dd buk houm wid mi:. 
What does John do in the morning? He goes to school 
hzvjt d\z dyn du: in dd mj'.niyf hi: gouz td sku.l 
in the morning. What did John do yesterday? He went 
in dd nu:nirj. hwjt did dyn du: jestddi? hi: went 
to school yesterday. What has John done for seven 
td sku:l jestddi. hwot hcez dyn dAn fo: sevn 
years? He has gone to school for seven years. 
jidz? hi: hcez gm td sku:l fo: sevn jidz. 
I see the children in the garden. I also saw them there 
ai si: dd tjildrdn in dd ga:dn. ai o:lsou sj: dem ded 
yesterday. I have seen them there every day. 
jestddi. ai hcev si:n dent ded evri dei. 
John hears mother call him now. He heard mother call 
dyn hidz mAdd ko:l him nau. hi: hd:d mxdd ki:l 
him before. He has not heard mother call. 
him bi'fj:. hi: hcez not hd.d mAdd kj:l. 
They put their books in their rooms now. They put their 
bei put be a buks in bed ru:mz nau. dei put be a 
books in their rooms yesterday. They have put their 
buks in bed ru:mz jestddi. bei hcev put be a 
books in their rooms every day this week. 
buks in be a ru:mz evri dei bis wi:k. 
Mother makes the food to-day. Aunt Gwen made the 
mAba meiks ba fu:d ta'dei. a:nt gwen meid ba 
tea yesterday. Helen has not made the tea. 
ti: jestadi. helin hcez not meid ba ti:. 
Baby sleeps in Helen’s room now. Baby slept in her 
beibi sli:ps in helinz ru:m nan. beibi slept in ha: 
mother’s room till she was six months old. Baby has 
niAbaz ru:m til ji: waz siks iinxnps ould. beibi hcez 
slept in Helen’s room for twelve days. 
slept in helinz ru:m fa: twelv deiz. 
We eat three meals a day. John ate a pear yesterday. 
wi: i:t pri: mi:lz a dei. dyn et a pea jestadi. 
Helen has not eaten all her apples. 
helin hcez nat i:tn a:l ha: ceplz. 
Helen says something to her father now. She said 
helin sez s.vmpiij ta ha: fa:ba nau. fi: sed 
something to him yesterday. Has mother said “Good 
SAinphj ta him jestadi. hcez niAba sed (C gud 
night” to you? 
nait” ta ju:f 
Helen swims very well now. John swam in the lake 
helin swnnz veri ivel nau. dyn swcern in ba leik 
The Thirteenth (13th) Chapter. 
yesterday. He has swum many times in thfe lake. 
jestddi. hi: hcez swaui meni taimz in dd leik. 
The cows drink the water of the lake. John drank 
dd kauz driyk dd wo:td dv dd leik. dyn drceyk 
milk yesterday. Baby has not drunk her milk. 
milk jestddi. beibi hcez tut drAijk hd: milk. 
I read a book every week. I read a book yesterday. I 
ai ri:d d buk evri wi:k. ai red d buk jestddi. ai 
have read this book many times. 
hcev red dis buk meni taimz. 
John writes to his uncle every month. He wrote to his 
dyn raits td hiz Aykl evri niAnp. hi: rout td hiz 
uncle yesterday. He has written many times to his uncle. 
Af/kl jestddi. hi: hcez ritn meni taimz td hiz a ykl. 
John can read books now. He could not read when he was 
dyn keen ri:d buks nau. hi: kud not ri:d hwen hi: woz 
five years old. He has been able to read for six years. 
faiv jidz ould. hi: hcez bi:n eibl td ri:d fo: siks jidz. 
We say: I am able to, or I can. I was able to, or I could. 
wi: sei: ai cent eibl td, o: ai keen, ai woz eibl td, o: ai kud. 
But we can only say: I have been able to. You are able 
b\t wi: keen ounli sei: ai hcev bi:n eibl td. ju: a: eibl 
to, or you can. You were able to, or you could. You 
td, d: ju: keen, ju: zvd: eibl td, j: ju: kud. ju: 
have been able to. He is able to, or he can. He was 
hcev bi:n eibl td. hi- iz eibl td, j: hi: keen, hi: wdz 
able to, or he could. He has been able to. When you 
eibl td, j: hi: kud. hi: hcez bi:n eibl td. hwen ju: 
have read all these verbs many times, you will have 
hcev red a:l di:z va:bz meni taimz, ju: mil hcev 
learned them. 
h:nd dew. 
What is a verb? A verb is a word. What does a verb 
hwat iz a va:bf a vd:b iz a ma:d. hwot d\z a Vd:b 
say? A verb says what a person or a thing does or is. 
seif a vd:b sez hzvjt d pa:sn a: d pig d\z o: iz. 
Which of these words: “The father gives John a foot- 
hwitf dv di:z wd:dz: “dd fa:da givz dyn a fut- 
ball”, is a verb? The word “gives” is a verb; when 
ba:l”, iz a va:b? da wa:d “givz” iz a va:b; hwen 
we ask, “What does the father do?” we answer, “He 
mi: a: sky “hwat dAZ da fa: da du:f” wi: a: ns a, “hi: 
gives.” Which of these words: “John was in the garden”, 
givz” limitf av di:z wa:dz: “dyn maz in da ga.dn”, 
is a verb? The word “was” is a verb. What do we put 
iz a va:b? da wa:d “maz” iz a va:b. hmat du: mi: put 
after most English verbs when it is not now that we do 
a:fta moust iyglif va:bz hwen it iz nat nau datwi: du: 
something, but at a time before now? We put the letters 
SAmpiy, b\t cet a tairn bi'fa: nau? mi: put da letaz 
-ed after the word. We have had some of these verbs. 
i:di: a:fta da zva:d. wi: hcev heed saw, av. di:z va:bz. 
The word “learn” is one of these verbs; we say: I learn 
da wa:d “la:n” iz mAn av di:z va:bz; wi: set: oi la:n 
English now, I learned some English words yesterday, 
iyglif nau, ai la:nd s\m iyglif wa:dz jestadi, 
The Thirteenth (13th) Chapter. 
but I have not learned enough English words. 
bAt ai hoev not h:nd i'nAf iyglif zva:dz. 
Have we had others of these verbs? Yes, we have 
hoev zvi: had Addz av di:z va:bzf jcs, zvi: hcev 
other 
others 
Have we had 
other verbs? 
Yes, we have had 
others. 
learned some others: “call”, “play”, “ask”, “answer”, 
la:nd saih Adaz: “kill”, “plei”, “a:sk”, “a:nsa”, 
and “walk”; after all these verbs we put the letters -ed 
and “zva:k”; ci.fta a:l di:z va:bz zvi: put da letaz i:di: 
when we speak of a time before now. Do all verbs take 
hzven zvi: spi:k av a taim bifo: nau. du: j :1 va:bz teik 
-ed? No, we have also learned some other verbs, for 
i:di:f non, zvi: hoev a:lsou larnd SAm Ada va:bz, far 
example: “give”, “take”; these verbs do not take the -ed. 
ig'za:mpl: “giv”, “teik”; di:z va:bz du: not teik di i:di:. 
EXERCISE A. 
The big children in the Swedish schools can speak 
she is not a good swimmer. I gave" her the pencil; 
WORDS: 
language 
speak 
word 
letter 
alphabet 
can 
cannot 
could 
able to 
that 
something 
example 
verb 
these 
north 
fifty 
hundred 
thousand 
given 
took 
taken 
gone 
done 
saw 
seen 
said 
heard 
put 
made 
slept 
ate 
eaten 
swam 
swum 
drank 
drunk 
The man goes. The words “play”, “walk”, “learn” we 
for five years. John asks Helen, “Have you seen my 
father gave him? Yes, he read it yesterday, and Helen 
The Thirteenth (13th) Chapter. 
read 
wrote 
written 
now 
twenty-six 
time 
America 
Australia 
EXERCISE B. 
verbs “call”, “learn”, “walk”, “ask”, “answer” when we 
