Chapter Fourteen (14). 
The Fourteenth (14th) Chapter. 
this 
that 
This book (here) 
is my book. 
That book (there) 
is your book. 
chair 
MR. SMITH’S HOUSE 
Mr. Smith has a house with five rooms. In one of the 
mistd smip hcez a haus wid faiv ru:mz. in w\n av da 
rooms the family have their meals; that is the dining-room. 
ru:mz da fee mil i hcev dea mi:\z; deet iz da dainiyru.m. 
They have their dinner in the dining-room; they dine 
dei hcev dea dina in da daimyrunn; dei dain 
in the dining-room. After dinner they go into another 
in da dainitjru:m. a:fta dina dei gou intu a'nxda 
room; that is the sitting-room. Here they sit in big 
ru:m; deet iz da sititjru:m. hia dei sit in big 
chairs and read their books in the evenings. There is 
tjeaz and ri:d dea buks in di i:vniyz. dear iz 
also a kitchen in the house. The kitchen is the room 
a: Ison a kit fan in da haus. da kit fan iz da ru:m 
where Mrs. Smith makes the food. 
hwea misiz smip meiks da fu:d. 
How many rooms are there in Mr. Smith’s house? There 
hau meni ru:mz a: dea in mist a smips haus? dear 
are five rooms in it. Where do the family have their 
a: faiv ru:mz in it. hwea du: da feemili hcev dea 
meals? They have their meals in the dining-room. Into 
mi'Azf dei hcev dea mi:lz in da dainirjru:m. inta 
which of the rooms do the family go after dinner? 
hwitf av da ru:mz du: da feemili gou a:fta dinaf 
116 
The Fourteenth (14th) Chapter. 
After dinner they go into the sitting-room. What is 
a:ftd dina dei gou inta da sitiyru:m. hwot is 
the kitchen? That is the room where Mrs. Smith 
da kitjan? dcet is da ru:m hwea misiz smip 
makes the food. What is in the sitting-room? In the 
meiks da fu:d. hwot is in da sitiyru:m\? in da 
sitting-room there are some big chairs and two small 
sititjru:m dear a: s\m big tjeas and tu: smo:l 
tables. Are there chairs in the dining-room, too? Yes, 
teibls. a: dea tfeas in da dainirjru:m, tu:? jes, 
but the chairs in the dining-room are not so big. Is 
b\t da tjeas in da dainirjru:m a: not sou big. iz 
there a table? Yes, the family have their meals at a 
dea a teibl? jes, da fcemili hcev dea mi:lz cet a 
large table in the dining-room. 
la:d% teibl in da dainitjru:m. 
Every room in Mr. Smith's house has four walls at the 
evri ru:m in mist a smips haus hces fo: wo:lz cet da 
sides, a ceiling at the top, and a floor to walk on. From 
saidz, a si:liy cet da top, and a flo: ta wo:k on. from 
the ceiling of the room hangs a lamp. The lamp gives 
da si:lit) av da ru:m hcerjz a lamp. da lamp givz 
light in the room in the evenings so that people can 
lait in da ru:m in di i:vniyz sou dat pi:pi keen 
read. In the day it is light, but at night it is dark. 
ri:d. in da dei it is lait, b\t cet nait it is da:k. 
People cannot read when it is dark. There are chairs 
pi:pl kcenot ri:d hwen it iz da:k. dear a: tfeaz 
table 
large = big 
lamp 
light 
light 
The light of the 
lamp makes the 
room light. 
117 
Chapter Fourteen (14). 
and a table on the floor of the dining-room. Mr. 
and a teibl on da flo: av da dainirjru:m. mist a 
Smith’s house has two gardens, one at the front and 
smips haus hces tu: ga:dns, wah cet da frAnt and 
another at the back of the house. When we come 
a'nAda cet da book av da haus. hwen wi: kAin 
through the front garden into the house, we first come 
pru: da frAnt ga:dn into da haus, wi: fa:st kAm 
into the hall. In the hall people hang their hats and 
into da ho:l. in da ho: l pi: pi hcey dea hoots and 
coats when they come in through the door. The 
bouts hwen dei kA m in pru: da do:. da 
second floor] 
first 99 
ground ” 
i 
EB 
BIB 
which of? 
which? 
On which of 
the floors is 
Helen’s room? 
= On which 
floor is Helen’s 
room? 
dining-room, the sitting-room, the kitchen, and the hall 
dainiyru:m, da sitiyru:m, da kit fan, and da ho:l 
are all on the ground floor of the house. On the first 
a: o:l on da ground flo: av da haus. on da fa:st 
floor of the house there are three bedrooms. Mr. and 
flo: av da haus dear a: pri: bedru.nis. mist a and 
Mrs. Smith sleep in one bedroom, John sleeps in 
misis smip sli:p in WAn bedru:m, dyn sli:ps in 
another bedroom, and Helen and Baby sleep in a third 
a'nAda bedru:m, and helin and beibi sli:p in a pa:d 
bedroom. 
bedru'.m. 
On which of the floors is the dining-room? The 
on Invitf av da flo:s is da dainiyru:mf da 
dining-room is on the ground floor. *On which floor is 
dainiyru'.m is on da ground flo:. on hwitf flo: is 
118 
The Fourteenth (14th) Chapter. 
Helen's and Baby's bedroom? It is on the first floor. 
helinz and bcibis bcdru.m? it iz on 3d fa:st fh:. 
How do we get from the ground floor to the first floor? 
hau du: wi: get from 3d ground fh: to 3d foist fh:? 
We go up the stairs to get to the first floor. On which 
wi: gou Ap 3d steas to get ta da fa:st fh:. on hivitf 
floor is John’s room at school? His room at school is 
fh: is dyns ru:m cet sku:l? his ru:m cet sku:l is 
on the second floor. The school is a big house; it has 
on 3a sekand fh:. da sku:l is a big haus; it hccs 
a ground floor, a first, and a second floor. In some 
d ground fh:, a fa:st, and a sekand flo:. in saiii 
schoolrooms there are many chairs and tables, one for 
sku:lru:ms dear a: weni tfeas and teiblz, w\n fo: 
each of the children. Each of the children in John’s 
i:tf av da tfildran. i:tf av da tfildran in dyns 
school has a small table and a chair. Not every child 
sku:l hccs a smo:l teibl and a tfea. not evri tfaild 
has a table and a chair; Baby has not a table and a 
hccs a teibl and a tfea; beibi hccs not a teibl and a 
chair; but each of the children in John's school has. 
tfea; bAt i:tf av da tfildran in dyns sku:l hccs. 
Has each of the persons in the Smith family a room? 
hccs i:tf av da pa:sns in da smip fcemili a ru:m? 
No, not each of the persons, only John has his own 
nou, not i:tf av da pa:sns, ounli dyn hccs his oun 
room. Helen does not sleep alone in her room; she and 
ru:m. helin dAS not sli:p a'loun in ha: ru:m; ji: and 
stairs 
every 
each 
Every child has 
two arms. 
Each of the 
children in the 
school has a 
pencil. 
119 
Chapter Fourteen (14). 
bathroom 
bath [ba:p] 
baths [ba:8z] 
mouth [maup] 
mouths [mauffz] 
wash-basin 
Baby sleep in one room; they sleep together. Mr. and 
beibi sli:p in wah ru:m; dei sli:p ta'geda. mistd dnd 
Mrs. Smith also sleep in one room. John and Helen 
misiz smip o:lsou sli:p in w\n ru:m. dyn and helin 
go to school together in the morning. Helen does not 
gou ta sku:l ta'geda in da mo:niij. helin d\z not 
go alone; she goes together with John. Baby does not 
gou a'loun; fi: gouz ta'geda zvid dyn. • beibi dAz not 
sleep alone; she sleeps together with Helen; but John 
sli:p a'loun; fi: sli:ps ta'geda zvid helin; bAt dyn 
sleeps alone in his own room. 
sli:ps a'loun in hiz oun ru:m. 
How many rooms are there on the first floor of the 
hau meni ru:mz a: dee on da fa:st flo: av da 
house? There are three bedrooms and a bathroom. 
hausf dear a: pri: bedru:mz and a ba:pru:m. 
Every morning Mr. Smith takes a cold shower in the 
evri mo:nig mista smip teiks a kould faua in da 
bathroom. Mrs. Smith and the children do not take 
ba:pru:m. misiz smip and da tfildran du: not teik 
cold showers, they take hot baths in the bath-tub every 
kould fauaz, dei teik hot ba:dz in da ba:ptAb evri 
night before they go to bed. When they take hot baths, 
nait bi'fo: dei gou ta bed. Jizven dei teik hot ba:dz, 
they have hot water in the bath-tub. Hot water is very 
dei hcev hot zvo:ta in da ba:ptAb. hot zvo:ta iz veri 
warm water. Before the meals the children wash their 
zvo:m zvo:ta. bi'fo: da mi:lz da tfildran zvof dea 
120 
The Fourteenth (14th) Chapter. 
hands in the wash-basin. Their hands are very dirty 
hcendz in da wafbeisn. dea hcendz a: veri da:ti 
when they come in from their play in the garden, but 
hwen del k\tn in from dea plei in da ga.dn, b\t 
when they have washed themselves, their hands are 
hwen dei hcev ivaft dam'selvz, dea hcendz u: 
clean. They put hot water in the wash-basin and wash 
kli:n. dei put hat wa:ta in da wajbeisn and waj 
their hands with soap. “Soap and water are good things 
dea hcendz wid soup. (C soup and wa:ta a: gud piyz 
for dirty hands,” Mrs. Smith says to her children. Baby 
fa: da:ti hcendz” niisiz smip scz ta Jia: tfildran. beibi 
cannot wash herself; she is too small; but John washes 
ktenat waf ha'self; fi: iz tit: sma:l; b\t dyn wajiz 
himself. Helen can wash herself, too; she is big enough 
him'self. helin keen waf lia:'self, tu:; fi: iz big i'nxf 
for that now. John and Helen both wash themselves. 
fa: deet mu. dyn and helin boup waf dam'selvz. 
EXERCISE A. 
We have our meals in the —. We have dinner in the 
dining-room, or we — in the dining-room. After dinner 
Mr. Smith and his family go into the —. In the sitting- 
room they — in big chairs. There are big — and 
small — in the sitting-room. Mrs. Smith makes the 
food in the —. At the top of the room is the —. From 
himself 
herself 
themselves 
John washes 
himself. 
Helen washes 
herself. 
John and Helen 
wash themselves. 
121 
Chapter Fourteen (14). 
WORDS: 
dining-room 
that 
dine 
sitting-room 
sit 
chair 
kitchen 
large 
table 
ceiling 
floor 
ground floor 
lamp 
hang 
light 
dark 
hall 
coat 
hat 
up 
bedroom 
stairs 
each 
together 
alone 
own 
soap 
bath 
shower 
bathroom 
hot 
bath-tub 
wash 
wash-basin 
dirty 
the ceiling of the room — a lamp. The lamp gives — 
in the room at night. In the day it is —, but at night 
it is —. The lamp gives — in the room when it is —. 
We walk on the — of the room. On the floor of the 
room there are chairs and —. There are two floors 
in Mr. Smith’s house; on the-are two large rooms, 
a dining-room and a —; on the-are three bed¬ 
rooms and a —. Helen and Baby sleep in one —, and 
John sleeps in another —. We go — the — to get to 
the first floor. When Mr. Smith comes home, he hangs 
his — and his — in the hall. 
— of the children in the school has a pencil. There 
is a table and a chair for — of the children in John’s 
school. Has — child a pencil? No, not — child has 
a pencil, but — of the children in the school has a 
pencil. Has — of the persons in Mr. Smith’s family 
a room? No, only John has his — room. Has Helen 
not her — room? No, Helen and Baby sleep —. Does 
John sleep —? * Yes, he sleeps — in his own room. 
Does Mrs. Smith take a cold — in the morning? No, 
Mrs. Smith and the children do not take cold —; they 
take hot baths in the —. — do we call very warm 
water? We call it — water. Where do the children 
— their hands before the meals? They wash their 
hands in the —. Are their hands dirty or — when 
they come in from their — in the garden? Their 
hands are —. What — the children wash their hands 
with? They wash their hands with — and hot —. 
Can the baby wash —? No, the baby cannot wash 
herself, but John and Helen wash —. Does Mr. Smith 
122 
The Fourteenth (14th) Chapter. 
wash —? Yes, Mr. Smith washes —, and Mrs. Smith 
also washes —. — is the kitchen? The — is the 
room where Mrs. Smith makes the —. 
clean 
play 
herself 
himself 
themselves 
EXERCISE B. 
In which of the rooms do we have our meals? ... Where 
do we sleep at night? ... Where does Mrs. Smith make 
the food? ... What do the family sit in in the sitting- 
room? ... Where does Mr. Smith hang his hat and 
coat? ... Has Helen her own bedroom? ... Has each 
of the persons in the family a room? ... Has every 
child a pencil? ... On which floor is the sitting-room? 
... Where are the bedrooms? ... What hangs from the 
ceiling of the sitting-room? ... Do Helen and John sleep 
in their own rooms? ... Does the baby sleep alone? ... 
How do we get light when it is too dark to read? ... 
123 
