Chapter Fifteen (15). 
The Fifteenth (15th) Chapter. 
skates 
little = small 
WINTER 
One day this winter John and his friend George went 
zvAn dei dis wintd dyn dnd his frend dy:d$ zvent 
out together. John has many friends, but his best 
aut ta'geda. dyn has meni frends, bAt his best 
friend is George. They go to school together in the 
frend is dy:d$. dei gou ta sku:l ta'geda in da 
morning, and they play together in the afternoon. John 
mo:niy, and dei plei ta'geda in di a:fta'nu:n. dyn 
and Helen are good friends, too; but sometimes he is 
and helin a: gud frends, ta:; b\t sAintaims hi: is 
not good to her, and then they are not friends. 
not gud ta ha:, and den dei a: not frends. 
George is the son of Mr. Smith’s neighbour, Mr. Green. 
dy:d 3 is da sah av mist a smips neiba, mist a gri:n. 
Mr. Green’s house is next to Mr. Smith’s house, and 
mist a gri:ns haus is nekst ta mist a smips herns, and 
the two men are neighbours. John’s room is next to 
da tu: men a: neibas. dyns ru:m is nekst ta 
Helen’s and Baby’s room, and the bathroom is next to 
helins and beibis ru:m, and da ba:pru:m is nekst ta 
Mr. and Mrs. Smith’s room. The other day the two 
mista and misis smips ru:m. di Ada dei da tu: 
boys walked to a little lake near their homes. They 
hois zvo:kt tu a litl leik nia dea houms. dei 
124 
The Fifteenth (15th) Chapter. 
had their skates with them. John’s skates were old, 
heed dea skeits wid dem. dynz skeits wd: ould, 
but George’s skates were new. John got his skates 
b\t dy.dyz skeits Wd: nju:. dyn got hiz skeits 
two years ago; they are old now; but George got his 
tn: jiaz a'gou; dei a: ould nau; b\t dy:d$ got hiz 
skates only three days ago; they are new. 
skeits ounli pri: deiz d'gou; dei a: nju:. 
What is the name of Mr. Smith’s neighbour? It is 
hwot iz do neim ov mist a smips neibaf it iz 
Mr. Green. Why do we call him Mr. Smith’s neigh- 
mista grim. hum du: wi: ko:l him mista smips nei- 
bour? Because he lives in the first house after that 
ba? bi'koz hi: livz in da fa:st haus a:fta deet 
of Mr. Smith. Has Mr. Smith more than one neigh- 
av mista smip. hcez mista smip mo: deen WAn nei- 
bour? Yes, he has two; the man in the house before 
ba? jes, hi: hcez tu:; da mcen in da haus bi'fo: 
that of Mr. Smith is also his neighbour. Why did 
deet 3V mista smip iz o:lsou hiz neiba. hwai did 
George get skates? Because it was Christmas. When 
dy.d^ get skeits? bi'koz it woz krismas. hwen 
is Christmas? Christmas Day is the twenty-fifth (25th) 
iz krismas? krismas dei iz da twenti'fifp 
of December. Are John’s skates new or old? They 
av di'semba. a: dynz skeits nju: o: ould? dei 
are old. Are George’s skates also old? No, they are 
a: ould. a: dy.dyz skeits o:lsou ould? nou, dei a: 
John gets tea 
every day. 
John got tea 
yesterdey. 
John has got tea 
the last five years. 
(He gets, he got, 
he has got.) 
that of 
Mr. Green’s house 
is larger than that 
of Mr. Smith = 
Mr. Green’s house 
is larger than Mr. 
Smith’s house. 
why? 
because 
Why do we call 
him Mr. Smith’s 
neighbour? 
Because he lives 
in the next house. 
125 
Chapter Fifteen (15). 
nothing — no 
thing 
He will, he would. 
He lets, he let, he 
has let. 
One inch = 2.54 
centimetres. 
He faUs, he fell, 
he has fallen. 
new; he has had them only three days. 
nju:; hi: hcez had dem ounli pri: deiz. 
In summer the weather is warm, but in winter the 
in SAmd dd wedd iz wo:m, h\t in ivinto dd 
weather is cold. The weather had been very cold 
wedd iz kould. dd wedd heed hi:n veri kould 
for the last two days. Then John said to his friend 
fo: dd la:st tu: deiz. den dyn sed td hiz frend 
George in the morning, “Now there is ice on the water. 
dy: d$ in dd mo:niy, “nau dedr iz ais on dd wo:td. 
Let us go out and skate on the lake to-day.” He said 
let as gou aut dnd skeit on dd leik td'dei . 33 hi: sed 
nothing to his mother. She would not have let him 
nApiy td hiz mAdd. fi: wud not hcev let him 
go. She would have said to him, “John, do not go 
gou. fi: wud hcev sed to? him, “dyn, du: not gou 
and skate to-day, or you will go through the ice. The 
dnd skeit td'dei, o: ju: wil gou pru: di ais. di 
ice is not thick enough. In two days the ice will be 
ais iz not pik i'n\f. in tu: deiz di ais wil bi: 
one or two inches thick, and then you can skate on it. 
w\n o: tu: infiz pik, dnd den ju: keen skeit on it. 
To-day the ice is too thin, only half an inch thick, so 
td'dei di ais iz tu: pin, ounli ha:f dn inf pik, sou 
that you will go through it and fall into the water.” 
dot ju: u’il gou pru: it dnd fo:l intd dd wo.td.” 
John did not put on enough clothes; he did not put on 
dyn did not put on i'nAf kloudz; hi: did not put on 
126 
The Fifteenth (ISth) Chapter. 
his coat. Hats and coats are clothes. In the morning 
hiz kout. hats and kouts a: kloudz. in da ma:niy 
people put on their clothes, and in the evening before 
pi:pi put an dea kloudz, and in di i:vniy bi'fa: 
they go to bed, they take them off again. When you 
dei gou ta bed, dei teik dem a:f a'gein. hzven ju: 
go out, you put on your hat and coat, and when you 
gou aut, ju: put an jua hat and kout, and hwen ju: 
come home, you take them off again. 
kAm houm. ju: teik dem a:f a'gein. 
When the two boys came to the lake, they put on their 
hwen da tit: baiz keini ta da leik, dei put an dea 
skates and went out on the ice. When they had skated 
skeits and went aut an di ais. hwen dei had skeitid 
for some time, John fell through the ice into the water. 
fa: s\m taim, dyn fel pru: di ais inta da wa:ta. 
When he came out again, he was wet and cold. He 
hwen hi: keim aut a'gein, hi: waz zvet and kould. hi: 
went home at once. When he got home, his mother 
went houm at w\ns. hzven hi: gat houm, hiz m\da 
said, “Your clothes are wet. You must have fallen 
sed, “jua kloudz a: wet. ju: mASt hav fa:ln 
into the water. You must go to bed at once, or you 
inta da wa:ta. ju: mASt gou ta bed at WAns, a: ju: 
will get a cold.” 
zvil get a kould . 33 
John's mother said that he must go to bed at once; 
dynz mAda sed dat hi: mAst gou ta bed at wahs; 
He must = he 
has to; 
he must = he 
had to; 
he has had to. 
127 
Chapter Fifteen (IS). 
I dry; 
he dries, he dried, 
he has dried. 
that is, he had to go to bed, not in two or three minutes, 
deet iz, hi: heed, td gou ta bed, not in tu: o: pri: minits, 
but now, at once. Would John's mother have let him 
b\t nau, eet WAns. wud dynz mxda hcev let him 
go to the lake? No, she would have said to him, “You 
gou ta da leik? nou, fi: zvud hcev sed ta him, “ju: 
must not go there to-day, you must play here.” Must 
m\st not gou dea ta'dei, ju: m\st plei hia” m\st 
the children go to school every day? (Do the children 
da tjildran gou ta sku:l evri dei? (du: da tfildran 
have to go to school every day?) Yes, they must (or 
hcev ta gou ta sku:l evri dei?) jes, dei m\st (o: 
“have to”) go to school every day. Why did John fall 
“hcev ta”) gou ta skn:l evri dei. hwai did d$on fo:l 
through the ice into the water? Because the ice was 
pru: di ais inta da wo:ta? bi-koz di ais woz 
too thin. Were John's clothes dry when he came out 
tu: pin. wa: dynz kloudz drai hwen hi: keim aut 
of the water? No, they were very wet; his mother 
av da wo:ta? nou, dei wa: veri wet; hiz m\da 
had to dry them for him. If you go out in wet weather, 
heed ta drai dem fo: him. if ju: gou aut in wet weda, 
it will make your clothes wet. Then you must d iry 
it wil meik jua kloudz wet. den ju: mAst drai 
them when you get home, and they will be dry again. 
dem hwen ju: get houm, and dei wil bi: drai a'gein. 
How long had the weather been cold? The weather had 
hau log heed da iveda bi:n kould? da weda heed 
128 
The Fifteenth (15th) Chapter. 
been cold for two days. Did John tell his mother that 
bi:n kould fo: tu: deiz. did dyn tel hiz mAda dat 
he would go to the lake? No, he did not tell his 
hi: wud gou ta da leikf nou, hi: did not tel hiz 
mother. Would his mother have let him go if he had 
mAda. wud hiz m\da hcev let him gou if hi: lued 
told her that he would go and skate on the lake? 
tould ha: dat hi: wud gou and skeit on da leikf 
No, she would not have let him go if he had told her 
nou, fi: wud not hcev let him gou if hi: heed tould ha: 
that. What would she have said to him if she had 
deet. hwot zvud fi: hcev sed ta him if fi: heed 
seen him go to the lake? She would have said, “You 
si:n him gou ta da leikf fi: wud hcev sed, “ju: 
must not go to-day, but in two days.” What did John’s 
niASt not gou ta'dei, bAt in tu: deiz . 33 hwot did dynz 
mother say when he came home? She said, “Go to 
mAda sei hwen hi: keim houmf fi: sed, <( gou ta 
bed at once, or you will get a cold.” Did he go to bed 
bed cet WAns, o: ju: wil get a kould ” did hi: gou ta bed 
at once? No, he did not go to bed at once; he went to 
cet WAnsf nou, hi: did not gou ta bed cet wahs; hi: went ta 
bed five minutes after his mother had said that he must. 
bed faiv minits a:fta hiz mAda heed sed dat hi: mAst. 
John’s father had said to his wife, “Do not let the 
dynz fa:da heed sed ta hiz waif, “du: not let da 
children go to the lake. The ice is too thin.” The 
tfildran gou ta da leik. di ais iz tu: pin" da 
go! 
do not go! 
Do not go out to 
play again, John, 
but go to bed at 
once! 
tell = say to 
He tells, he told, 
he has told. 
129 
Chapter Fifteen (15). 
mother had said to Helen, “Do not put on that thin 
m\da heed sed ta helin, “du: not put an deet pin 
coat to-day; the weather is too cold. Put on your 
kout ta'dei; da weda iz tu: kould. put an jua 
thick winter coat.” 
pik winta kout” 
WORDS: 
friend 
neighbour 
next to 
home 
skate 
new 
why 
got 
because 
ago 
Christmas 
weather 
let 
thick 
inch 
(to) skate 
thin 
fall 
fell 
EXERCISE A. 
George is John's —. Mr. Green is Mr. Smith's —. John 
and George went to the lake to — on the ice. George's 
father gave him — for Christmas. George’s skates are 
—, but John’s are —. — Day is the twenty-fifth of De¬ 
cember. In winter the — is cold, in summer the weather 
is —. When it is very cold, there is — on the water. 
John did not — his mother that they went — the lake; 
he said — to his mother. John said to George, “— us 
go to the lake to-day.” The mother will not — him 
go to-day, and she — not have let him go yesterday. 
She would have said, “— not go to the lake to-day, 
John!” The ice was not — enough to skate on; it was 
too —; it was only half an — thick. 
In the morning people put on their —, and in the evening 
they take them — again. John — through the ice into 
the water, when he had — for some time. Many children 
— through the ice every year when the ice is not — 
enough. It was the first time that John had — through 
the ice. When John came out of the water, he was 
very —. His mother said to him, “You — go to bed 
130 
The Fifteenth (15th) Chapter. 
at —, — you will get a cold.” John’s clothes were not 
— when he came home; they were —, and his mother 
had to — the wet clothes. 
— are John’s clothes wet? — he has fallen into the 
water. — would John’s mother have said that he must 
not go to the lake? — the ice was too thin to skate on. 
— did John say nothing to his mother? — she would 
not have — him go. Why — the boys go to the lake? 
They went there to —. 
EXERCISE B. 
Who is Mr. Green? ... Why were the boys good friends? 
... When did John get his skates? ... Did George get 
his skates for Christmas? ... Why did John say nothing 
to his mother before he went to the lake? ... Was the 
ice thick enough to skate on? ... What were John’s 
clothes when he had fallen into the water? ... What 
did his mother do with the wet clothes? ... Did John 
go to bed at once? ... 
fallen 
put on 
clothes 
off 
wet 
must 
at once 
dry 
(to) dry 
little 
tell 
nothing 
would 
if 
had 
best 
twenty-fifth 
131 
