Chapter Sixteen (16). The Sixteenth (16th) Chapter. 
CLOTHES 
When George and John had come back from the lake, 
hiven dy:d$ and dyn heed k\m bcek from da leik, 
boot 
George went home to his parents’ house. “Where have 
dy:d^ went houm td hiz psarants hens. “hwea hcev 
He comes, he came, 
he has come. 
you been, George?” his mother asked. “Father is at 
ju: hi:n, dy:d$?” hie m\da a:skt. “fa:da ie cct 
home to-day; he will go with us to town to get some 
houm ta'dei; hi: wil gou wid as ta taun ta get saiii 
should 
would 
new clothes for you. If you had not come home now, 
nju: kloudz fa: ju:. if ju: heed not kAm houm nan, 
I should, 
you would, 
he would, 
we should, 
you would, 
they would. 
we should have gone without you. Go and put on 
wi: jud hcev gan wid'aut ju:. gou and put an 
another hat and coat! Take off your old boots and put 
a'nAda hcet and kout! te:k a:f jua ould hu:ts and put 
a pair = two 
on the new pair of shoes you got for Christmas!” 
an da nju: pea av fu:z ju: gat fa: krismas!” 
When George was ready to go, that is, when he had 
hwen dy.d 3 zvas redi ta gou, deet iz, hwen hi: heed 
put on his other clothes, his father said, “Are you ready 
put an hiz Ada kloudz, hiz fa:da sed, “a: ju: redi 
o? 
now? Then we can go.” “Oh, but I am not ready yet,” 
nau? den wi: keen gou . 33 “ou , bAt ai cent nat redi jet/ 3 . 
shoe 
his mother said from the first floor. “Where are my 
hiz mAda sed fram da fa:st fla:. <c hwear a: mai 
The Sixteenth (16th) Chapter. 
gloves? I cannot find them. Have you Seen my gloves, 
glwzf ai kcenat faind dem. hcev ju: si:n mai glAVZ, 
George? It is too cold to go without them; my fingers 
dy.d$? it iz tit: kould ta goit wid'aut dem; mai fiygaz 
will be cold.” Mr. Green: “Oh, women can never find 
uni hi: kould ” mistd grim: “ou, wimin keen neva faind 
please go and find them!” George went to see if he 
pli:z gou end faind dem!” dy:d$ went td si: if hi: 
in the hall! “Here they are, mother, I have found them. 
in da had! “hia dei a:, mAda, ai hcev faund dem. 
They were on the little table in the hall.” “That is 
dei wa: an da lit l teibl in da ha:l” “beet iz 
my things with me.” Mr. Green: “It is time you came 
mai piyz wid mi:” mista grim: “it iz taim ju: keim 
now. It will be very late before we get to town. First 
nau. it wil bi: veri leit bi'fa: zvi: get ta taun. fa:st 
glove 
He finds, he found, 
he has found. 
Find my gloves, 
please = Will you 
find my gloves 
for me? 
handkerchief 
hour for you; will this family never learn to be ready 
aua fo: ju:; zvil dis fcemili neve lam te bi: redi 
in time?” 
in faint?” 
tram 
At last they could go. It was so late that they did 
cet la.st dei kud gou. it zvoz sou leit dat del did 
not have time to walk to town, so they had to take a 
not hcev taim td wo:k td taun, sou dei heed td teik a 
MEN'S CLOTHES 
shop 
look at = see 
tram. The tram took them to a shop where George 
treem. da treem tuk dem tu a fop hzvea dy:d$ 
could get his new clothes. They went into the shop, 
kud get his nju: kloudz. dei went inta da fop, 
and a man came and asked them what they wanted. 
and a mcen keim and u:skt dem hwot dei zvontid. 
“I want to look at some clothes for my son, please,” said 
“aiwont ta Ink cet saiu kloudz fo: mu: sau, pli:z” sed 
Mr. Green. “What colour, sir?” “What colour do you 
mista grim. (C hzJUot kxla, sa:?” “hzvot kxla du: ju: 
want, George?” “Oh, I like brown best. My hair is 
zvont, dy.d^f” “ou, ai laik braun best. mai he a iz 
brown, and my eyes are brown, too. Do you like brown, 
braun, and mai aiz a: braun, tu:. du: ju: laik braun, 
too, mother?” 
tu:, m\da?” 
Mrs. Green is a dark-eyed and dark-haired little woman; 
misiz grim iz a da.kaid and da:khead litl zvuman; 
she likes brown very much. “Well, let me see, then. 
fi: laiks braun veri mAtf. “zvel, let mi: si:, den. 
The Sixteenth (16th) Chapter. 
You must have a pair of trousers, no, two pairs, one 
ju: IHASt hcBV d p £9 3V tfaUZ9Z, nou, tu: p£3Z, zvah 
pair of long trousers and one pair of trousers to play in. 
p£d dv lay trauzaz and wah p£d av trauzaz ta plei in. 
You must also have a waistcoat and a coat. Do you 
ju: mAst o'.lsou hcev a weiskout and a kout. du: ju: 
like this suit of clothes, George?” “Yes, but I like 
laik dis sju:t av kloudz, dy:d$?” “jes, bAt ai laik 
that suit better; which do you like best, mother?” “I 
dcet sju:t beta; hwitj du: ju: laik best, mAda?” “ai 
like the dark-brown one best.” “Do you waht that suit 
laik da da:kbraun wau best” “du: ju: want dcet sju:t 
then, my boy?” “Yes, I should like to have the 
den, mai bait” “jes, ai fud laik ta hcev da 
dark-brown one, please.” “How much does it cost?” 
da:kbraun zvah, pli:z.” “hau niAtf dAZ it kastf” 
“It is very dear, sir, but it is also a very good suit, it 
“it iz veri dia, sa:, bAt it iz a.lsou a veri gud sju:t, it 
is the best we have. It costs six pounds (£ 6) with two 
iz da best zvi: hccv. it kasts siks poundz wid tu: 
pairs of trousers, five pounds (£ 5) with only one pair.” 
peaz av trauzaz, faiv paundz wid ounli wah p£3.” 
“That is too much money, Henry, for a suit of clothes 
“dcet iz tu: niAtf mAni, henri, fa: a sju:t av kloudz 
for a boy, is it not?” “Yes, it is very dear, but let 
fa: a bai, iz it nat?” “jes, it iz veri dia, bAt let 
him have it if he likes it so much.” “Oh, thank you, 
him hcev it if hi: laiks it sou mAtf” “on, pcerjk ju:, 
waistcoat 
good 
better 
best 
coat 
It costs, it cost, it 
has cosi. 
£ 1 = 20 shillings 
money 
I thank you, I 
thanked you, 
I have thanked 
you. 
Grey is the colour 
of dirty snow. 
sir 
madam 
Thank you, sir = 
thank you, Mr. 
Green. 
Thank you, madam 
= thank you, Mrs. 
Green. 
He likes, he liked, 
he has liked. 
broad stripes 
ms 
narrow stripes 
father!” “We also want to look at some shirts for the 
fa:bo!” “wi: d :Is ou wont to luk cet saih Jo:ts fo: do 
boy, please.” “Yes, sir, we have here some very fine 
bo:, pli:z” “jcs, so:, wi: hcev hio sam veri fain 
grey shirts for boys, with blue stripes.” “No,” said 
grei jo:ts fo: boiz, z vib blu: straips” “non,” sed 
Mrs. Green, “the stripes are too broad; have you no 
misiz gri:n, “do straips a: tu: bro:d; hcev ju: non 
shirts with narrow stripes? And the colour must not 
jo:ts wid neerou straips t ond do IcaIo niASt not 
be blue; blue is for people with blue or grey eyes. I 
bi: blu:; bin: iz fo: pi:pi zvid blu: o: grei aiz. ai 
like green better with the brown suit and his brown 
laik grim beto zvid do braun sju:t ond hiz braun 
eyes. Let me see that shirt, please! Do you like it, 
aiz. let mi: si: beet fo:t, pli:z! du: ju: laik it, 
George?” “Yes, mother, I do.” “Let us take this one, 
dy:d$?” “jes, niAdo, ai du:” C( let as teik bis wah, 
then. How much does it cost?” “Eight shillings, madam; 
ben. hau mAtf dA2 it kost?” “eit filiyz, mcedom; 
that is very cheap, because it is a very good shirt. It 
beet iz veri tfi:p, btkoz it iz o veri gud fo:t. it 
is so cheap because we have only two of these shirts, 
iz sou tfi:p bi'koz wi: hcev ounli tu: ov bi:z fo:ts , 
and they are very small.” “Yes, that is cheap; eight 
ond bei a: veri smo:l” “jes, beet iz tfi:p; eit 
shillings is not much for a good shirt. Shall we take 
filirjz iz not mAtf fo: o gud fo:t. feel wi: teik 
The Sixteenth (16th) Chapter. 
both shirts for him, Henry?” “Yes, let us do that. Do 
boup fd:ts fo: him, henri?” “jes, let as du: dcet. du: 
you want some underwear for him, too?” “Yes, but it 
ju: wont s\m a ndoweo fo: him, tu:?” “jes, bAt it 
must be woollen underwear; this time of the year is 
mASt bi: wulin Andoibeo; dis taim ov do jid is 
underwear 
one sheep 
two sheep 
we get wool from, George?” “Oh, yes, I know that. 
wi: get wnl from, dy:d%?” “ou, jes, ai nou dcet. 
I have learned it at school. We get wool from sheep. 
ai hccv h:nd it cet sku:l. wi: get wul from fi:p. 
I also know where we get cotton from. It is a plant 
ai o:lsou non hwed wi: get kotn from, it is d pla:nt 
sheep 
product from warmer countries than our own.” The 
prodokt from wo:me kAntris Seen aue oun.” dd 
man in the shop: “Is that all, sir? No socks or ties?” 
man in dd fop: “is dcet o:l, se:f nou soks o: tais?” 
“No, we have enough now, thank you. My wife makes 
“nou, wi: hcev i'nAf nau, pceyk ju:. mai waif meiks 
all his woollen socks herself, and he never puts on his 
o:l his wulin soks ho:'self, end hi: neve puts on his 
ties. How much does it all come to, now?” “Let me 
tais. hau MAtf dAS it o:l kAm to, nau?” “let mi: 
25 shillings; 8 pounds 1 shilling in all, sir.” Mr. 
twenti'faiv jiliyz; eit paundz w\n jiliy in s:l, se:.” mists 
Green: “Here is the money.” The man: “Thank you, 
gri:n: “hiar iz da mAni” da mean: “pceyk ju:, 
sir.” George: “Oh, thank you, father and mother, for 
sa:” dy:d$: “ou, pceyk ju:, fa:da and mAda, fa: 
all the fine things I have got to-day.” Mr. Green: “Do 
a:l da fain piyz ai hcev gat ta'dei” mists grim: “du: 
you like them, my boy? That is fine, then.” 
ju: laik dem, mai bait deet iz fain, den ” 
George: “Mother, I should like to go in and speak 
dy:d 3 ; “mAda, ai jud laik ta gou in and spi:k 
to John when we get home. Is there time for that 
ta dyn hwen wi: get houm . iz dca taim fa: deet 
before dinner?” Mrs. Green: “Oh, I know that Mrs. 
bi'fa: dina?” misiz grim: “ou, ai non dat misiz 
Smith would not like that! It is too late now, and she 
smip wud nat laik deet l it iz tu: leit nau, and fi: 
has so many things to do before dinner that she cannot 
hcez sou meni piyz ta du: bi'fa: dina dat fi: kcenat 
have two boys in the house.” “But mother, John fell 
heev tu: baiz in da haus” “bAt mAda, dyn fel 
through the ice this afternoon, and I want to know if 
pru: di ais dis a:fta'nu:n, and ai want ta nou if 
he is in bed, and what his mother said.” “So you have 
hi: iz in bed, and hwat hiz mAda sed” “sou ju: hcev 
been on the ice! Well, then it is better for you to go 
bim an di ais! wel, den it iz beta fa: ju: ta gou 
The Sixteenth (16th) Chapter. 
in and ask if John is ill, but you must be back in five 
in dnd a:sk if dyn ic il, b\t jit: niAst hi: bcek in faiv 
minutes. And I shall have something to say to you 
minits. dnd ai feel hcev sAinpiij td sei td jit: 
when you come home. On the ice, and I did not know! 
hwen ju: k\m houm. jn di ais, dnd ai did not non! 
We should not have given him the skates until the ice 
w': fitd njt heev givn him dd skeits ah' til di ais 
was thick enough to skate on, Henry.” 
wjz pik i'tL\f td skeit jn, henri” 
EXERCISE A. 
now?” But Mrs. Green was not ready yet; she could 
WORDS: 
without 
boot 
shoe 
ready 
glove 
find 
found 
never 
yet 
bag 
handkerchief 
late 
wait 
tram 
shop 
want 
look at 
brown 
like 
trousers 
pair 
madam 
sir 
coat 
waistcoat 
suit 
better 
cost 
dear 
pound (£) 
money 
thank 
shirt 
fine 
broad 
stripe 
grey 
narrow 
cheap 
shilling 
underwear 
woollen 
wool 
cotton 
know 
product 
sheep 
sock 
tie 
should 
dark-eyed 
dark-haired 
dark-brown 
please 
from warmer countries than our own. 
do you say to a person when he has given you some¬ 
minutes for him. 
EXERCISE B. 
her to town? .. . What did they get for George at the 
like a brown suit best? .. . Which shirt did his mother 
like best? .. . Where do we get cotton and wool from? . .. 
his father when he had got all the fine things? . .. 
