Chapter Seventeen (17). 
The Seventeenth (17th) Chapter. 
MRS. SMITH’S NEW FROCK 
Mrs. Smith has a very good friend, Mrs. Daisy Brown; 
mists smip has d veri gud frend, misi2 deisi braun; 
she is the woman who lives on the other side of the 
ji: is dd wumdn hu: livs on di Add said dv dd 
road. Next Wednesday is her birthday, and Mrs. Smith 
roud. nekst wen 2 di is hd: bo:pdei, dnd mists smip 
and her other friends will come to her house in the 
dnd hd: Add frends wil kAtn td hd: haus in di 
evening to see her. 
i:vniy td si: ho:. 
Yesterday Mrs. Smith said to her husband, who was in 
jestddi misis smip sed td hd: hAsbdnd, hu: wos in 
the sitting-room with a good book, “Allan, I have no 
dd sitiyru:m wid d gud buk, “celon, ai hcev nou 
frock to put on next Wednesday on Daisy’s birthday. 
frok td put on nekst wensdi on deisis bo:pdei. 
I must have a new one.” “What, have you no frock? 
ai iiiAst hcev o nju: WAn” “hwot, hcev ju: nou frokf 
You have a green silk frock, a brown one, and one 
ju: hcev o grim silk frok, o braun WAn, dnd WAn 
with little flowers; you have three good frocks.” “No, 
wid litl flauos; ju: hcev pri: gud froks ." “nou, 
the green frock is the one which I had on last year on 
do gri:n frok is dd WAn hwitf ai heed on la:st jid on 
who 
which 
The person who 
lives there. 
The thing which 
is there. 
frock 
5/1 
He buys, he 
bought, he has 
bought. 
myself 
yourself 
Is this for 
myself? 
Yes, it is for 
yourself. 
I wash myself. 
You wash 
yourself. 
new 
newer 
newest 
her birthday, and the others are not good enough.” 
ha: ba:pdei, dnd di Adas a: not gud i'nxf” 
“Well, if you must have a new frock, you must. Here 
“wel, if ju: m\st hcev a nju: frak, ju: mAst. hidr 
is twelve pounds (£12) to buy a new frock. Is that 
is twelv paunds td bai a nju: frak. is dcet 
enough money?” “Oh yes, I can buy a very good frock 
i'nAf ma ni?” “ou jes, ai keen bai a veri gud frak 
for £12. I know a little shop which has very 
fa: twelv paunds . ai nou a litl Jap hwitf hces veri 
good things, and they are not very dear. I shall go 
gud pigs, and dei a: njt veri did. ai feel gou 
now, so that I can be back in time for dinner.” 
nau, sou dat ai keen bi: bcek in taim fa: dina” 
In the Shop. 
“What can I do for you, madam?” “I want to look at 
“hwat kcenaidu: fa: ju:, mcedam? 33 “ai want ta luk cet 
some evening-frocks which are not too dear.” “For 
SAm i:vniy fraks hwitf a: nat tu: dia. 33 “fa: 
yourself, madam?” “Yes, for myself.” “We have some 
jua'self, mcedam?” “jes, fa: mai'self” “wi: hcev SAm 
new silk frocks from Paris, the newest frocks we have 
nju: silk fraks fram pceris, da nju:ist fraks wi: hcev 
got.” “Yes, let me look at them. Can I try them on?” 
gat ” ({ jes, let mi: luk cet deni, keen ai trai dem an? 33 
“Yes, madam, we have some small rooms here for that. 
“jes, mcedam, wi: hcev SAm sma:l ru:ms hia fa: dcet. 
The Seventeenth (17th) Chapter. 
It is better to try and see if the frocks are big enough 
it iz beta td irai and si: if da fraks a: big i'n\f 
for you. This frock is very beautiful; the blue colour 
fj: ju:. dis frak iz veri bjn: tiful: da blit: k\la 
goes very well with madam’s beautiful blue eyes.” 
(joitz veri wel zvid meed am z bjn:tiful bin: aiz.” 
it is too big for me.” The woman in the shop: “Will 
it iz tu: big fa: mi:” da umman in da fap: u wil 
you try on this frock, please, madam?” Mrs. Smith: 
ju: trai an dis frak . pli:z, meed am?” rnisiz smip: 
“No, I do not like this one so well. Can you not make 
“non, ai du: nat laik dis w\n sou wel. keen ju: nat meik 
the blue frock smaller? I must have it next Tuesday. 
da bin: frak sma.la? ai m\st hcev it nekst tju.zdi. 
Can it be ready then?” “Yes, we shall have it ready. 
keen it bi: redi den?” “ jes, wi: feel hcev it redi. 
Shall we send it to you, madam?” “Yes, I should like 
feel wi: send it ta ju:, mcedam?” “jes, ai jud laik 
you to send it, please.” “What is the address?” 
ju: ta send it, pli:z” “hwat iz di a'dres?” 
“Forty-nine (49), Nelson Road. You sent me some 
“fa:ti'nain, nelsn roud. ju: sent mi: saw 
things last week, but they went to the wrong address 
pivjz la:st wi:k, b\t dei went ta da ray a'dres 
first. You sent them to number forty-five (45). Have 
fa:st. ju: sent deni ta nxmba fa.ti'faiv. licev 
I try; 
he tries, he tried, 
he has tried. 
He sends, he sent, 
he has sent. 
5/2 
that 
The person that 
lives there = the 
person who lives 
there. 
The thing that is 
there = the thing 
which is there. 
£ 1 (one pound) 
= 20 shillings 
1 shilling 
= 12 pence 
one penny 
eleven pence 
you the right address now?” “Yes, madam, number 
ju: da rait a'dres nan?” “jes, madam, n\mba 
forty-nine.” “Yes, that is the right number. Oh, how 
fa.’ti'nain.” “jes, dat iz da rait n\mba. ou, hau 
much does the frock cost?” “Ten pounds ten shillings, 
mAtj d\z da frak kast?” “ten paundz ten filiyz, 
We have some new colours that would go very well 
wi: hav SAm nju: kAhz dat wud gou veri wel 
with the blue frock.” 
wid da blu: frak” 
“These stockings are very good. What is the price?” 
“di:z stakiyz a: veri gud. hwat iz da prais?” 
“The price is fourteen shillings and elevenpence 
“da prais iz fa:ti:n filiyz and i'levnpans 
(14/11).” “I shall take only one pair, because 
(fa:ti:n and flevn)” “ai jal teik ounli WAn pea, bi'kaz 
I want to buy a new petticoat, too, and I have only 
ai want ta bai a nju: petikout, tu:, and ai hav ounli 
£ 12 with me. Have you petticoats in the same 
twelv paundz wid mi:, hav ju: petikouts in da seim 
blue colour as the frock, and at not too high a price?” 
blu: kAla az da frak, and at nat tu: hai a prais?” 
“We have some petticoats at a very low price, but they 
“wi: hav SAm petikouts at a veri lou prais, bAt dei 
are the wrong blue colour. If you want the same 
a: da ray blu: kAla. if ju: want da seim 
The Seventeenth (17th) Chapter. 
colour, the price is a little higher; but they are not 
lace fj n 
kAh, da prais iz a litl haia; bxt dei a: not 
i7 
very dear. This one without lace costs ten shillings 
veri dia. dis zvAti wid'aut leis hosts ten filiyz 
/ f 
and elevenpence (10/11), and the same petticoat 
and i'levnpans (ten and i'levn), and da seim petikout 
with lace costs thirteen shillings and elevenpence 
wid leis kosts pa:ti:n filiyz and i'levnpans 
petticoat 
(13/11). It is just the right colour for your 
(pa:ti:n and i'levn). it iz d^Ast da rait kAla fa: jua 
frock.” “What beautiful lace! I shall take that one. 
frak.” “hwat bju:tiful leis! ai feel teik dcet WAn. 
cottar 
I have just enough money to buy it. Oh, just one thing 
ai hcev d$Ast i'nAf mAni ta bai it. ou, d$Ast WAn piy 
more! I should like to have a small lace collar for my 
mo:! ai fud laik ta hcev a smo:l leis kola fo: mai 
old frock, but I have no more money with me. Will 
ould frok, bAt ai hcev nou mo: mAni wid mi:, wil 
you send a bill for the collar with the frock when you 
ju: send a bil fo: da kola wid da frok hwen ju: 
that is nothing, madam. We are glad to do that for 
dcet iz nApiy, mcedam. wi: a: glced ta du: dcet fo: 
you.” 
bill 
ju:. 33 
Back at Home. 
small 
smaller 
smallest 
(a short word) 
but: 
beautiful 
more beautiful 
most beautiful 
(a long word) 
“Hallo, Allan! Here I am again.” “Hallo, Patricia! 
“ha'lou, celdn! hid ai am a'gein” “ha'lou, pa'trifa! 
Did you buy the frock that you wanted?” “Yes, I 
did ju: bai da frak bat ju: want id?” “jes, cd 
bought the most beautiful blue silk frock I have seen 
bait da moust bjuitiful blu: silk frak ai hav si:n 
for a long time, and a pair of stockings, and a collar, 
fa: a lay taim, and a pea av stakiyz, and a kala, 
The frock which 
Mrs. Smith bought 
= the frock that 
Mrs. Smith bought 
= the frock Mrs. 
Smith bought. 
and a petticoat.” “Did you buy all that? Well, I should 
and a petikout” (C did ju: bai a:l bat? wel, ai jud 
have known that I would get no money back!” “Allan, 
hcev noun bat ai wud get nou m\ni bcek!” “alan, 
I did not have enough money, but the woman who has 
ai did nat hcev i'n\f m\ni, b\t da wuman hu: has 
the shop said she would send a bill with the frock. 
da fap sed fi: wud send a bil wid da frak. 
I know, I knew, 
I have known. 
That was very kind of her, was it not?” “Not enough 
beet waz veri kaind av ha:, waz it nat?” “nat i'n\f 
money? How big is the bill?” “Only four shillings 
m.\ni? hau big iz da bil?” “ounli fa: filiyz 
and elevenpence (4/11).” “Well, I am glad it is 
and i'levnpans (fa: andi'levn)” “wel, ai am glad it iz 
no more. When will dinner be ready?” “In half an 
nou ma:. hwen wil dina bi: redi?” “in ha:f an 
14fi 
The Seventeenth (17th) Chapter. 
to give me that book? Thank you!” 
to giv mi: deet bukf pceyk ju:! 33 
“Patricia! ” “Yes, Allan?” “How many people will you 
“pd'trijd!” “jes, colon?” “hau meni pi:pl wil ju: 
be at Daisy’s house on her birthday?” “I do not know 
hi: cet deists haus on ho: bo:pdei? 33 “aidu: not nou 
how many we shall be this year. Last year we were 
hau meni wi: feel bi: dis jio. la:st jid wi: wo: 
ten.” “All women?” “Yes, we girls like to be together 
ten/' “o:l wimin?” “jes, wi: go:Is laik to bi: to'gedo 
sometimes without our husbands.” “Oh, so I do not 
SAmtaims wid'aut auo h\zbondz/ 3 “ou, sou ai du: not 
have to go, too? Fine! Then I could take the children 
hcev to gou,tu:f fain! den ai kud teik do tfildron 
is, not the baby. We could ask one of your aunts if 
is, not do beibi. wi: kud a:sk w\n ov juo a:nts if 
she would be so kind as to come and look after her.” 
fi: wud bi: sou kaind ces to k\m ond luk a:fto ho:/ 3 
“Yes, we could ask Aunt Jane. She is always very 
“jes, wi: kud a:sk a:nt dyin. fi: is o:lwis veri 
kind. The baby likes her, and she looked after Helen 
kaind. do beibi. laiks ho:, ond fi: lukt a:fto helin 
and John many times when they were younger. So 
ond dyn meni taims hwen dei wo: jAygo. sou 
she knows where things are in the house, and how to 
fi: nous hweo pirjs a: in do haus, ond hau to 
give the baby her food, and what to do when the baby 
giv da beibi ha: fu:d, and hwot ta du: hwen da beibi 
As you have seen in some of the last chapters, some of 
cez ju: hcev si:n in sam av da la:st tjceptaz, s\m av 
the verbs do not take an -s in the present tense. (The 
da va:bz du: not teik an es in da preznt tens. (da 
time of a verb we call its tense. The time “now” we 
tairn av a va:b wi: ko:l its tens. da tairn “nau” wi: 
call the present tense.) Most of the verbs take an -s 
ko:l da preznt tens.) moust av da va:bz teik an es 
in the present tense when the verb says that one thing 
in da preznt tens hwen da va:b sez dat wah pig 
or one person does something. We say: he goes, she 
o: WAn pa:sn dAZ s Am pig. wi: sei: hi: gouz, ji: 
says. But some verbs do not take this -s. We say: 
sez. bAt SAm va:bz du: not teik dis es. wi: sei: 
he can, she will, he must, he shall, without the -s. 
hi: keen, fi: wil, hi: mAst, hi: feel, wid'aut di es. 
Another thing, too, is not the same in these verbs as 
a'nAda pig, tu:, iz not da seim in di:z va:bz cez 
in other verbs. We say: he goes, he went, he has gone; 
in Ada va:bz. wi: sei: hi: gouz, hi: went, hi: hcez gan; 
she plays, she played, she has played. But with the 
fi: pleiz, fi: pleid, fi: hcez pleid. bAt wid da 
The Seventeenth (17th) Chapter. 
verbs “can”, “will”, “must”, “shall”, we must put other 
vd:bz “keen”, “wil”, “mASt”, “feel”, wi: m\st put Add 
words after “has” and “have”. We say: I can swim, 
Wd:dz a:ftd “hcez” and “hcev”. wi: sei: ai keen swim, 
or I am able to swim; I could swim, or I was able to 
o: ai cem eibl td swim; ai kud swim, o: ai woz eibl td 
swim; but only: I have been able to swim for many 
swim; bAt ounli: ai hcev bi:n eibl td swim jo: meni 
do it, or he has to do it; he should do it, or he had to do it; 
du: it, o: hi: hcez td du: it; hi: fud du: it, o: hi: heed td du: it; 
or I want to give her the pencil; I would give her the 
o: ai wont td giv hd: dd pensil; ai wud giv hd: dd 
pencil, or I wanted to give her the pencil; but only: 
pensil, i o: ai wontid td giv hd: dd pensil; bAt ounli: 
I have wanted to give her the pencil. 
ai hcev wontid td giv hd: dd pensil. 
EXERCISE A. 
on on Daisy’s birthday. People-their clothes in 
The woman in the shop said that Mrs. Smith’s blue 
the frock, madam?” and Mrs. Smith answered that 
WORDS: 
frock 
silk 
buy 
bought 
myself 
yourself 
try 
tried 
beautiful 
address 
send 
sent 
who 
which 
right 
wrong 
number 
stocking 
hallo 
that 
price 
same 
penny 
pence 
lace 
petticoat 
just 
the other side of the road. They say: The stockings 
the price of the petticoat without lace. 
Yes, she had- : money to buy it. Had she enough 
The Seventeenth (17th) Chapter. 
EXERCISE B. 
the woman in the shop glad to send a bill for the collar? 
collar 
bill 
known 
kind 
a little 
glad 
present 
tense 
chapter 
forty-nine 
5/3 
