Chapter Eighteen (18). 
The Eighteenth (18th) Chapter. 
postman 
He brings, he 
brought, he has 
brought. 
letter 
THE BIRTHDAY PARTY 
The other day, Mrs. Smith was at her friend Daisy’s 
di Add dei, misiz smip waz cet ha: frend deiziz 
birthday party. (When it is your birthday, you have 
ba.pdei pa:ti. (hwen it iz jua ba:pdei, ju: hcev 
a party for your friends.) Some days before, the 
a pa:ti fa: jua frendz.) saih deiz bifa:, da 
postman had brought her a letter from her friend. 
poustman heed bra:t ha: a let a fram ha: frend. 
In the letter Daisy wrote that she would be very glad 
in da let a deizi rout dat fi: wud bi: veri glced 
to see her at her birthday party on the next Wednesday, 
ta si: ha: cet ha: ba:pdei pa:ti an da nekst wenzdi, 
and that she wanted her to come to dinner at seven 
and dat fi: wantid ha: ta £aw ta dina cet sevn 
o’clock. 
a'klak. 
“Look here,” Mrs. Smith said to her husband and gave 
(< luk hia” misiz smip sed ta ha: hAzband and geiv 
him the letter, “an invitation to my best friend Daisy’s 
him da leta, “an invi'teifan ta mai best frend deiziz 
birthday party, and it is not an invitation to afternoon 
ba:pdei pa:ti, and it iz nat an invi y teifan tu a:fta'nu:n 
tea, but to dinner, and later we are to have chocolate. 
ti:, bAt ta dina, and leita wi: a: ta hcev tfakalit. 
The Eighteenth (18th) Chapter. 
How glad I shall be to put on my new frock for the 
hau glced ai feel bi: ta put on mai nju: frak fa: da 
first time! You will dine in town then that day, my 
fa:st taim! ju: wil dain in taun den dcet dei, mai 
dear, will you not?” 
did, wil ju: not?” 
What is a letter? The English word letter means two 
hwat iz d letdf di iyglif wa:d let a mi: ns tu: 
things. First it means one of the letters of the alpha- 
pitjz. fa:st it mi:ns w\n av da letaz av di celfa- 
bet: a, b, c, etc. (et cetera). Then it means a piece of 
bit: ei, bi:, si:, it'setra. den it mi:nz a pi:s av 
paper on which you have written something to a person. 
peipa an hwitf ju: hcev ritn SAmpitj tu a pa:sn. 
Who brings you the letters? The postman brings the 
hu: brifjz ju: da letaz? da poustman briyz da 
letters. Who wrote a letter to Mrs. Smith? Her friend 
letaz. hu: rout a leta ta misiz smip? ha: frend 
Daisy wrote her a letter in which she asked her to 
deizi rout ha: a leta in hwitf fi: a:skt ha: ta 
dinner on her birthday. Did Daisy invite Mrs. Smith's 
dina an ha: ba.'pdei. did deizi in'vait misiz smips 
husband, too? No, she only invited Mrs. Smith; the 
hxzband, tu:? nou, fi: ounli in'vaitid misiz smip; di 
invitation was not for Mr. Smith. 
invi'teifan waz nat fa: mista smip. 
What is chocolate? It is a brown drink which people 
hwat iz tfakalit? it iz a braun driyk hwitf pi:pl 
sometimes have on birthdays; but you can also buy 
SAmtaimz hcev an ba:pdeiz; b\t ju: keen oilsou bai 
a piece of chocolate in a shop to eat, and then you get 
a pi:s dv tfakalit in a fop tu i:t, and den ju: get 
it in a piece of paper. 
it in a pi:s av peipa. 
On Wednesday, Mrs. Smith had to begin two hours 
an 1 wenzdi, misiz sniip heed ta bi'gin tu: auaz 
He begins, he 
began, he has 
begun. 
before the party to make herself ready. She began to 
bi'fa: da pa:ti ta meik ha:'self redi. fi: bi'gcen ta 
make herself ready in the afternoon at five o’clock. 
meik ha:'self redi in di a:fta'nu:n ert faiv a'klak. 
She took a bath, and then she dressed, that is, she put 
fi: tuk a ba:p, and den fi: drest, deet iz, fi: put 
to-night = this 
evening 
on her clothes, and at half past six she was ready to go. 
an ha: kloudz, and cet ha:f pa:st siks fi: waz redi ta gou. 
“Now, be good children,” she said to John and Helen; 
“nau, bi: gud tfildran,” fi: sed ta dyn and helin; 
“if you are naughty to-night when I am away, you 
“if ju: a: na:ti f ta'nait hwen ai cem a'wei, ju: 
must not go out and play to-morrow. George is always 
mASt nat gou aut and plei ta'marou. dy:d$ iz a:lwiz 
a good boy when he is alone at home, but you are not 
a gud bai hwen hi: iz a'loun cet houm, bAt ju: a: nat 
always good. You have been naughty children the last 
a.lwiz gud. ju: hcev bi:n na:ti tfildran da la:st 
two or three times I have been away.” “But this time 
tu: a: pri: taimz ai hcev bi:n a'wei” “bAt dis taint 
The Eighteenth (18th) Chapter. 
we will be good children, mamma.” “All right, then I 
wi: wil bi: gud tfildran, ma'ma:” “a:l rait, den ai 
will go. Good-bye, children!” “Good-bye, mamma!” 
wil gou. gud'bai, tfildran!” “gud'bai, ma'ma:!” 
At what time did Mrs. Smith begin to make herself 
cet hwjt taim did misiz smip bigin td meik ha:'self 
ready for Daisy's birthday party? She began at five 
redi fa: deiziz ba:pdei pa:tif fi: bi'gcen cet faiv 
o’clock. What did she do? First she took a bath, and 
a'klak. hwat did fi: du:f fa:st fi: tuk a ba:p, and 
then she dressed. What does the word “to dress” mean? 
den fi: drest. hwat d\z da wa:d “ta dres” mi:nf 
It means to put on your clothes. Are Helen and John 
it mi:nz ta put an jua kloudz. a: helin and dyn 
always good children? No, they are not always good; 
a:lwiz gud tfildranf non, dei a: nat a:lwiz gud; 
sometimes they are naughty. Is George always a good 
SAmtaimz dei a: na:ti. iz d^a:d^ a.lwiz a gud 
boy? Yes, he is always a good boy. What did Mrs. 
bait jes, hi: iz a:\wiz a gud bai. hwat did misiz 
Smith say to her children just before she went to the 
smip sei ta ha: tfildran d^ASt bifa: fi: went ta da 
birthday party? She said, “Good-bye, children!” 
ba:pdei pa:tif fi: scd, “gnd'bai, tfildran!” 
“Hallo, Daisy, how are you?” “Hallo, Patricia, I am 
“ha'lou, deizi, hau a: ju:f” “ha'lou, pa'trifa, ai com 
very well, thank you, and I hope you are well, too.” 
veri wel, pceyk ju: f and ai houp ju: a: wel, tu:” 
I will go = I want 
to go. 
we will be good 
= we want to be 
good. 
“I am all right, thank you. And how is your sister? 
“ai am a:l rait, payk ju:. and hau iz jud sistaf 
The last time I heard of her, she was ill.” “She is 
da la:st taim ai ha:d av ha:, fi: waz il.” “fi: iz 
still = yet 
She is still in bed 
= she is in bed 
yet. 
better now, thank you, but she is still in bed.” “I 
beta nau, payk ju:, b\t fi: iz stil in bed” “ai 
hope it will not be long before she is all right again. 
houp it wil not bi: lay bi'fa: fi: iz o:l rait a'gein. 
Here is my birthday present for you. I hope you will 
hiar iz mai ba:pdei preznt fa: ju:. ai houp ju: wil 
like it.” “Oh, a pair of silk stockings; thank you, dear; 
laik it” “ou, a pea av silk stakiyz; payk ju:, dia; 
I had hoped for a pair of stockings, but it is too much 
ai had houpt fa: a pea av stakiyz, b\t it iz tu: m\tf 
to give me such a fine birthday present.” “Oh no, you 
ta giv mi: s\tf a fain ba:pdei preznt” “ou nou, ju: 
have always been such a good and dear friend to me.” 
hav a:lwiz bi:n SAtf a gud and dia frend ta mi:.” 
Daisy: “It is kind of you to say that, my dear. Now 
deizi: “it iz kaind av ju: ta sei dat, mai dia. nau 
all my guests have come. You know them all, Patricia, 
a:l mai gests hav k\m. ju: nou dem a:l, pa'trifa, 
except this young lady. This is Mrs. Hudson, and this 
ik'sept dis jxy leidi. dis iz misiz h\dsn, and dis 
is Mrs. Smith.” Mrs. Smith: “How do you do, Mrs. 
iz misiz smip.” misiz smip: “hau du: ju: du:, misiz 
Hudson.” Mrs. Hudson: “How do you do, Mrs. Smith.” 
h\dsn.” misiz h\dsn: “hau du: ju; du:, misiz smip.” 
The Eighteenth (18th) Chapter. 
Daisy: “Dinner is ready now.” 
deist: “dind is redi nau” 
Did Mrs. Smith give Daisy a birthday present? Yes, 
did misiz smif> giv deizi a ba.pdei prezntf jes, 
she gave her a pair of silk stockings as a birthday 
fi: geiv ha: a pea av silk stakiyz cez a ba:pdei 
present. Did Daisy like her birthday present? Yes, 
preznt. did deizi laik ha: ba.pdei prezntf jes, 
ladies are always glad to get such presents. They can 
leidiz a: a:lwiz glced ta get SAtj preznts. dei keen 
never get enough silk stockings. 
neva get i'n\f silk stakiyz. 
Did Daisy have other guests than Mrs. Smith and Mrs. 
did deizi hcev Ada gests deen misiz smip and misiz 
Hudson on her birthday? Yes, she had still other guests 
h\dsn an ha: ba:pdeif jes, fi: heed stil Ada gests 
on her birthday. When do people have guests? When 
an ha: ba:pdei. hwen du: pi:pi hcev gests? hwen 
they give a party, they invite guests to come to their 
dei giv a pa:ti, dei in'vait gests ta kAm ta dea 
home. Were all the people at the party ladies? No, 
houm. wa: a:l da pi:pl cet da pa:ti leidiz? nou, 
not all, but almost all of them were ladies; the only 
nat a:l, bAt a:lmoust a:l av dem wa: leidiz; di ounli 
gentleman was Daisy’s husband. Were all the guests 
dyntlman waz deiziz hAzband. wa: a:l da gests 
ladies? Yes, all the guests were ladies; Daisy’s husband 
leidiz? jes, a:l da gests wa: leidiz; deiziz JiAzband 
lady = woman 
gentleman = man 
one lady 
two ladies 
one gentleman 
two gentlemen 
was not a guest in his own house. Did Mrs. Smith know 
woz not a gest in hiz oun haus. did misiz smip non 
all the guests? No, she did not know all of them, but 
d: 1 dd gestsf nou, fi: did not non o:l av dem, b\t 
almost all; she had never seen Mrs. Hudson before. 
j'Amoust o:l; fi: heed nevd si:n misiz hAdsn bi'fa :. 
What did Mrs. Smith say when she saw Mrs. Hudson? 
hwjt did misiz smip set hwen fi: so: misiz hAdsn? 
She said, “How do you do.” And what did Mrs. Hudson 
fi: sed, “hau du: ju: du:” and hwot did misiz hAdsn 
say? She said, “How do you do”, too. In England you 
seif fi: sed, “hau du: ju: du:”, tu:. in itjgland ju: 
say “How do you do” the first time you see a person; 
sei “hau du: ju: du:” dd fa:st taim ju: si: a pa:sn; 
but when you see a person you know well, you only 
bAt hwen ju: si: a pa:sn ju: nou wel, ju: ounli 
say “Hallo” or “How are you?” 
sei “ha'lou” a: “hau a: ju:?” 
EXERCISE A. 
The other day Mrs. Smith was at her friend Daisy's 
not an invitation to-, but to dinner. The word 
The Eighteenth (18th) Chapter. 
you say the first time you see a person? You say, 
EXERCISE B. 
Smith say to her children just before she went to the 
WORDS: 
postman 
letter 
bring 
brought 
invitation 
invite 
ask 
guest 
party 
chocolate 
drink 
lady 
gentleman 
begin 
began 
dress 
to-night 
such 
present 
piece 
mean 
etc. 
et cetera 
mamma 
naughty 
hope 
all right 
always 
good-bye 
dear 
almost 
still 
