Chapter Nineteen (19). 
The Nineteenth (19th) Chapter. 
He site, he sat, 
he has sat. 
plate 
THE DINNER 
Daisy’s husband had been in his bedroom to dress, but 
deiziz hAzbdnd heed bi:n in hiz bedru:m ta dres, b\t 
now he came down from the first floor. When they 
nau hi: keim daun from da fa:st fla:. hwen dei 
had all come into the dining-room, Daisy’s husband 
head a:l k\m inta da dainit/ru:m, deiziz hAzband 
said, “Please sit down at the table. Will you sit down 
sed, “pli:z sit daun cat da teibi. wil ju: sit daun 
there, Mrs. Smith, and will you sit down on that chair 
dea, misiz smip, and wil ju: sit daun an deet tjea 
next to my wife, Mrs. Hudson?” When they had all 
nekst ta mai waif, misiz hAdsn?” hwen dei heed a:l 
sat down at the table, they began to eat. First they had 
seat daun eet da teibi, dei bi'geen tu i:t . fa:st dei heed 
soup made from many vegetables. “What a good soup,” 
su:p meid from meni vedytablz. t( hwat a gud su:p,” 
Mrs. Hudson said, “how good it tastes!” Daisy: “I am 
misiz hAdsn sed, (< hau gud it teists ! 93 deizi: “ai earn 
glad that it tastes good. Do you want another plate 
gleed dat it teists gud. du: ju: want a'nAda pleit 
of soup?” “No, thank you, I can eat no more.” Daisy’s 
av su:p?” “ne)u, peeyk ju:, ai keen i:t nou ma:” deiziz 
husband: “Please give me another plate of soup. I am 
JiAzband: (e pli:z giv mi: a'nAda pleit av su:p. ai earn 
160 
The Nineteenth (19th) Chapter. 
very hungry. I had so much work to do to-day that 
veri hxYjgri. at heed sou MAtf wa:k ta du: ta'dei ddt 
I had no time for lunch, so now I am so hungry that 
ai heed non taim jo: Iah{, sou nauaieem sou hAygri dot 
two plates of soup are not too much for me.” 
tu: pleits dv su:p a: not tu: mAtf fo: mi:” 
Where had Daisy’s husband been? He had been in his 
hwea heed deizi2 hAzband bi:n? hi: heed bi:n in hiz 
bedroom on the first floor to dress. Did he come down 
bedru.m on do fa:st flo: to dres . did hi: kAm daun 
to the guests? Yes, he came down from the first floor 
td da gests? jes, hi: keim daun from da fa:st flo: 
when he had dressed. What did the guests do when 
hwen hi: heed drest. hwot did da gests du: hwen 
they came into the dining-room? They sat down at 
dei keim inta da dainiyru:m? dei seet daun eet 
the table. Who asked them to sit down? Daisy’s hus- 
da teibl. hu: a:skt dem ta sit daun? deiziz hAZ- 
band asked them to sit down. What did they have 
band a:skt dem ta sit daun. hwot did dei heev 
first? First they had soup. What is soup made from? 
fa:st? fa:st dei heed su:p. hwot iz su:p meid from? 
It is made from vegetables, and sometimes it is also 
it iz meid from ved^itablz, and SAmtaimz it iz o.lsou 
made from meat; but the meat is not in the soup when 
meid from mi:t; bAt da mi:t iz not in da su:p hwen 
you get it for dinner; it has been taken out again. It 
ju: get it fo: dina; it heez bi:n teikn aut a'gein . it 
is made 
was made 
has been made 
How is soup 
made? = How do 
you make soup? 
How was the soup 
made? = How did 
you make the 
soup? 
How has the soup 
been made? = 
How have you 
made the soup? 
you (here) = 
people 
161 
Chapter Nineteen (19). 
maid 
was only put in to give the soup a good taste. Did the 
woz ounli put in td giv dd snip d gud teist. did dd 
soup taste good? Yes, Mrs. Hudson said that it tasted 
su:p teist gud? jes, misiz h\dsn sed ddt it teistid 
very good. Why was Daisy’s husband so hungry? 
veri gud. hwai woz deiziz liAzbond sou hxggri? 
Because he had had so much work to do that he had 
bi'koz hi: heed heed sou niAtf wd:k td du: ddt hi: heed 
had no time for lunch; he was so hungry that he ate 
heed nou taim fj: IahJ; hi: woz sou hAygri ddt hi: et 
two plates of soup. 
tu: pleits dv su:p. 
He cuts, he cut, 
he has cut 
Then the maid came in with a large dish. On the dish 
den dd meid keim in wid d la:d$ dij. jn dd dif 
was beef. Daisy’s husband cut the beef with a big 
wjz bi:f. deiziz hAzbdnd kAt dd bi:f wid 3 big 
one knife 
two knives 
knife, and then put a piece on each plate. Daisy put 
naif, dnd den put d pi:s on i:tj pleit. deizi put 
potatoes and vegetables on the plates and gave one plate 
pd'teitouz dnd vedytoblz on dd pleits dnd geiv wau pleit 
to each of the guests. “Will you give me the salt, 
tu i:tj dv dd gests. “wil ju: giv mi: dd so.lt, 
please,” said Mrs. Hudson to Mrs. Smith. “I like salt 
pli:z, 33 sed misiz hAdsn to misiz smip. “ai laik so:It 
both in the soup and with the meat.” With the beef 
boup in dd su:p dnd wid do mi:t.” wid dd bi:f 
they had wine. Daisy’s husband poured wine into the 
dci heed wain. deiziz hAzbdnd po:d wain intd dd 
162 
The Nineteenth (19th) Chapter. 
glasses from a big bottle, and when he had tasted it, 
gla.siz from a big batl, and hwen hi: heed teistid it, 
he said, “Oh, it would make a new and better man of 
hi: sed, “on, it wud meik a njn: and beta man av 
me to have such a glass of wine every day. Water is 
mi: ta hcev SAtf a gla:s av wain evri dei. wa:ta iz 
good to drink for people who are thirsty, but wine is 
gud ta driyk fa: pi:pi hu: a: pe:sti, b\t wain iz 
better.” Then they had ice-cream, and when they had 
beta ” den dei heed 'ais'kri.m, and hwen dei heed 
gone into the sitting-room, a cup of coffee was ready 
gan inta da sitiyrurm, a k\p av kafi waz redi 
there for each of the guests. 
dea fa: i:tj av da gests. 
Who came into the dining-room with the dishes? The 
hu: keim inta da dainiyrw.m wid da difizf da 
maid came into the dining-room with the dishes. Is 
meid keim inta da dainiyru.m wid da difiz. iz 
there a maid in every home? No, it is only people 
dea a meid in evri houmf nou, it iz ounli pi:pl 
with big houses where there is much work to do, who 
wid big hauziz hwea dear iz mxtf wa:k ta du:, hu: 
have maids. Who cut the beef? Daisy’s husband cut 
hcev meidz. hu: k\t da bi:f? deiziz h\zband k\t 
the beef. What do people use knives for? A knife is 
da, bi:f. hwat du: pi:pi ju:z naivz fa:? a naif iz 
used to cut the food into pieces before it is put into 
ju:zd ta k\t da fu:d inta pi:siz bi'fa: it iz put inta 
163 
Chapter Nineteen (19). 
is used 
are used 
A pencil is used to 
write with. 
Pencils are used to 
write with. 
is called 
are called 
The boy Is called 
John. 
The small spoons 
are called tea¬ 
spoons. 
for instance = 
for example 
the mouth. Do they use knives to put the food into 
do maup. du: dei ju:s naive td put dd fu:d into 
their mouths? No, they use forks; a fork is used to put 
dee maudsf nou, dei ju:s fo:ks; dfj:k is ju:sd td put 
the food into the mouth. Do people also use forks when 
dd fu:d intd dd maup. du: pi:pl o:lsou ju:s fo:ks hwen 
they eat soup? No, then they use spoons; a spoon is 
dei i:t su:pf nou, den dei ju:z spu:ns; d spu:n is 
used for soup. Spoons are also used to put sugar in tea 
ju:zd fo: su:p. spurns a: odsou ju:zd td put fugd in ti: 
or coffee; but they are smaller than the spoons which 
o: kofi; b\t dei a: smodo deen dd spu:nz hwitj 
are used for soup, and they are called teaspoons. 
a: ju:sd fo: su:p, dnd dei a: kodd ti:spu:nz. 
What do people drink when they are thirsty? They 
hwot du: pi:pi dritjk hwen dei a: pe.sti? dei 
drink water, but sometimes, for instance at parties, they 
drirjk wo: to, b\t SAmtaimz, for instons cet pa:tiz f dei 
drink wine. Who took the bottle and poured wine into 
driyk wain. hu: tuk do botl end po:d wain into 
the glasses? Daisy’s husband took the bottle and poured 
do gla:siz? deiziz h\zbond tuk do botl end po:d 
the wine into the glasses. What did the guests have 
do wain into do gla:siz. hwot did do gests hcev 
after the beef? They had ice-cream. What did they 
a:fto do bi:ff dei heed 'ais'kri:m. hwot did dei 
have in the sitting-room? They had a cup of coffee. 
hcev in do sitirjru.m? dei heed $ k\p ov kofi. 
164 
The Nineteenth (19th) Chapter. 
After the coffee the guests had a good, long talk 
a:ftd da kafi da gests heed a gud, lay ta:k 
together. Mrs. Smith talked to Daisy about her three 
ta'geda. misiz smip ta:kt ta deizi a'baut ha: pri: 
children, and Daisy's husband had a good talk with 
tjildran, and deiziz hAzband heed a gud to:k wid 
Mrs. Hudson about his work. Later in the evening they 
misiz h\dsn a'baut hiz wa:k. leita in di i:vniy dei 
had birthday chocolate. “Oh, I have eaten so much for 
heed ba.pdei tfakalit. “ou, ai hcev i:tn sou m\tj fa: 
dinner,” Daisy's husband said, “must I have chocolate, 
dina” deiziz hAzband sed, “mAst ai hcev tfakalit, 
too?” Daisy: “It is my birthday, and you must have 
tu: f” deizi: (( it iz mai ba:pdei, and ju: mASt hav 
chocolate, too.” When it was almost eleven o'clock, 
tfakalit, tu:” hwen it waz a.lmoust i'levn a'klak, 
Mrs. Smith said, “How late it is! Now I must go home. 
misiz smip sed, “hau leit it iz! nau ai mAst gou houm. 
It has been a very pleasant evening, Daisy. It was so 
it hcez bi:n a veri pleznt i:vniy, deizi. it waz sou 
pleasant to be together again.” “Yes, I was glad to see 
pleznt ta bi: ta'geda a'gein.” “jes, ai waz glced ta si: 
you again, too.” 
ju: a'gein, tu:” 
What did the guests do after the coffee? After the 
hwat did da gests du: a:fta da kafif a:fta da 
to talk = to speak 
We talk together. 
Can you speak 
English? 
coffee the guests had a long talk together. 
kafi da gests heed a lay ta:k ta'geda. 
What did 
hwat did 
165 
Chapter Nineteen (19). 
Mrs. Smith talk to Daisy about? She talked to Daisy 
misiz smip ta:k ta deizi a'baut? fi: ta:kt ta deizi 
about her own children. Did the guests have a pleasant 
a'baut ha: oun tfildran. did da gests hav a pleznt 
evening at Daisy’s home? Yes, they had a very pleasant 
i:vniy at deiziz houmf jes, dei had a veri pleznt 
evening, and Mrs. Smith told Daisy that it had been 
i.vniy, and misiz smip tould deizi dat it had bi:n 
so good to see her. 
sou gud ta si: ha:. 
WORDS: 
EXERCISE A. 
down 
sit 
sat 
soup 
taste 
(to) taste 
plate 
hungry 
work 
maid 
dish 
cut 
knife 
salt 
wine 
pour 
glass 
thirsty 
ice-cream 
fork 
use 
Daisy’s husband came — from the first floor. He said, 
“— sit — at the table. Will you please-on that 
chair?” — is made from vegetables and sometimes 
from meat, too. Mrs. Hudson said that the soup — 
good; it had a good —. Daisy’s husband was so — that 
he ate two — of soup. He had had much — to do that 
day. The — came in with a dish. On the — was beef. 
Knives are used to — with. You cut your food into 
pieces with a —. A fork is — to put the food into 
the mouth. When you eat soup, you do not use a —, 
but a —. With the beef the guests had —. Daisy’s 
husband — the wine into the — from a big —. People 
drink water when they are —. You put sugar in 
coffee with a —. People drink — from glasses. 
Did the guests have more than — and beef for dinner? 
Yes, they also had —. Did the guests — together after 
the coffee? Yes, they had a long — together; Mrs. Smith 
166 
The Nineteenth (19th) Chapter. 
talked to Daisy — her three children. Did the guests 
have a — evening at Daisy’s home? Yes, they had a 
very — evening. 
EXERCISE B. 
What is soup made from? ... Why was Daisy’s husband 
so hungry that day? ... How many plates of soup did 
he eat? ... What do people drink wine from? ... Did 
the soup have a good taste? ... Who came in with the 
dishes? ... What are knives used for? ... What are forks 
used for? ... What do people eat soup with? ... Did the 
guests have more than soup and beef for dinner? . . . 
When did they talk together? ... Was it late when Mrs. 
Smith went home?... Had it been a pleasant evening? ... 
spoon 
teaspoon 
bottle 
talk 
(to) talk 
pleasant 
cup 
about 
instance 
167 
