Chapter Two (2). 
The Second (2nd) Chapter. 
is 
are 
February Is a 
month. 
There are twelve 
months. 
one - first 
two -second 
three - third 
four - fourth 
five - fifth 
six - sixth 
seven - seventh 
eight - eighth 
nine - ninth 
ten - tenth 
eleven - eleventh 
twelve - twelfth 
thirteen - thir¬ 
teenth 
fourteen - four¬ 
teenth 
THE YEAR 
January is a month. February is also a month. There 
dyenjuari iz 3 mAnp. febrnari iz o:lsou d mAnp. dear 
are twelve (12) months, one (1), two (2), three (3), 
a: twelv mAnps, w\n, tu:, pri:, 
four (4), five (5), six (6), seven (7), eight (8), nine (9), 
fa:, faiv, siks, sevn, eit, nain, 
ten (10), eleven (11), twelve (12). 
ten, i'levn, twelv. 
January is the first (1st) month. February is the 
d^cenjuariiz da fd:st mAnp. febrnari iz da 
second (2nd) month. March is the third (3rd) month. 
sekand mAnp. ma:tf iz da pa:d mAnp. 
April is the fourth (4th) month. May is the fifth (5th) 
eipril iz da fa:p mAnp. mci iz da fifp 
month. June is the sixth (6th) month. July is the 
mAnp. dyt:n iz da siksp m.\np. dyt'lai iz da 
seventh (7th) month. August is the eighth (8th) month. 
sevnp mAnp. a:gast iz di. dtp mAnp. 
September is the ninth (9th) month. October is the 
sap'temba iz da nainp mAnp. jk'tonba iz da 
tenth (10th) month. November is the eleventh (11th) 
tenp niAiip. nou'vemba iz di i'levnp 
month. December is the twelfth (12th) month. 
mAnp. di'semba iz da twelfp mAnp . 
16 
The Second (2nd) Chapter 
January and February are months. There are twelve 
d^cenjuari dnd februari a: wiah ps. dear a: twelv 
months in a year. January is the first month of the 
mAnps in a jia. d^cenjuari iz da fa:st niAnp av da 
year. December is the last month of the year. A year 
jia. di'semba iz da la:st mAnp av da jia. a jia 
has twelve months. A month has four weeks. Three 
hcez twelv mAnps. a mAnp hcez fa: wi:ks. pri: 
months have thirteen (13) weeks. A week has seven 
mAnps hcev pa:ti:n wi:ks. a wi:k hcez sevn 
days. Two weeks have fourteen (14) days. 
deiz. tu: zvi:ks hcev fa:ti:n deiz. 
How many months are there in a year? There are 
hau meni mAnps a: dea in a jia? dear a: 
twelve months in a year. How many weeks are there 
twelv mAnps in a jia. hau meni wi:ks a: dea 
in a month? There are four weeks in a month. How 
in a niAnp? dear a: fa: wi:ks in a mAnp. hau 
many days are there in a week? There are seven days 
meni deiz a: dea in a wi:k? dear a: sevn deiz 
in a week. What are the seven days of the week? 
in a wi:k. hwat a: da sevn deiz av da wi:k? 
The seven days of the week are: Sunday, Monday, 
da sevn deiz av da wi:k a: : SAndi, niAndi, 
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday. 
tju:zdi, wenzdi, pai.zdi, fraidi, scetadi. 
has 
have 
One week has 
seven days. 
Two weeks have 
fourteen days. 
What month is the first month of the year? January is 
hwat mAnp iz da fa:st mAnp av da jia? d^cenjuari iz 
17 
Chapter Two (2). 
what? 
which of? 
What is the first 
month of the 
year? 
Which of the 
months of the year 
is the first? 
the first month of the year. What is the last month of 
dd fd:st mAnp dv dd jid. hwot iz dd la:st mAnp dv 
the year? December is the last month of the year. 
dd jia? di'sembd iz dd la:st mAnp dv dd jid. 
What is the first day of the week? Sunday is the 
hwdt iz dd fd:st dei dv dd wi:k? SAndi iz dd 
first day of the week. What is the last day of the 
fd:st dei dv dd wi:k. hwot iz dd la:st dei dv dd 
week? Saturday is the last day of the week. 
wi:kf scetddi iz dd la:st dei dv dd w\:k. 
Which of the days of the week is the first? Sunday is 
hwitj dv dd deiz dv dd wi:k iz dd fd'.stf SAndi iz 
the first day of the week. Which of the days of the 
dd fd:st dei dv dd wi:k. hwitf dv dd deiz dv dd 
week is the second (2nd) ? Monday is the second (2nd) day 
wi:k iz dd sekdndf mAndi iz dd sekdnd dei 
of the week. Tuesday is the third (3rd) day of the week. 
dv dd wi:k. tju.zdi iz dd pd:d dei dv dd wi:k. 
Wednesday is the fourth (4th) day of the week. Thurs- 
wenzdi iz dd fo:p dei dv dd wi:k. pd:z- 
day is the fifth (5th) day of the week. Friday is the 
di iz dd fifp dei dv dd wi:k. fraidi iz dd 
sixth (6th) day of the week. Saturday is the seventh (7th) 
siksp dei dv dd wi:k. scetddi iz dd sevnp 
day of the week. Saturday is also the last day of the 
dei dv dd wi:k. scetddi iz d'.lsou dd la.st dei dv dd 
week. Which of the months of the year is the 
wi:k. huntj dv dd mAnps dv dd jid iz dd 
18 
The Second (2nd) Chapter. 
twelfth (12th)? December is the twelfth (12th) and 
twelfpf di'semba iz da twelfp and 
also the last month of the year. What is the ninth (9th) 
a:lsou da la:st mAnp av da jia. hwot iz da nainp 
month of the year? September is the ninth (9th) month. 
mAnp av da jia? sap'temba iz da nainp mAnp . 
What day is the eighth (8th) day of the week? There is 
hwot dei iz di eitp dei av da wi:k? dear iz 
no eighth (8th) day of the week. There are only 
nou eitp dei av da wi:k . dear a: ounli 
seven (7) days in a week. Which of the months of the 
sevn deiz in a wi:k . hwitf av da mAnps av da 
year is the thirteenth (13th)? There is no thirteenth 
jia iz da pa:ti:np? dear iz nou pa:ti:np 
month of the year. There are only twelve months in 
mAnp av da jia . dear a: ounli twelv mAnps in 
a year. 
a jia . 
EXERCISE A. 
January is a —. March and April are —. — is the 
first month of the year. February is the — month of 
the year. March is the — month. April is the — 
month. May is the — month. June is the — month. 
July is the — month. August is the — month. Sep¬ 
tember is the — month. October is the — month. 
November is the — month. December is the — and 
also the — month of the year. 
no 
There is no eighth 
day of the week. 
WORDS: 
four 
six 
seven 
eight 
nine 
ten 
eleven 
twelve 
thirteen 
fourteen 
first 
second 
19 
Chapter Two (2). 
third 
fourth 
fifth 
sixth 
seventh 
eighth 
ninth 
tenth 
eleventh 
twelfth 
thirteenth 
fourteenth 
month 
year 
week 
day 
January 
February 
March 
April 
May 
June 
July 
August 
September 
October 
November 
December 
Sunday 
Monday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 
last 
A — has twelve months. A — has seven days. Two 
-fourteen days. The seven days of the week 
are: —, —, —, —, —, —, —. There is — eighth day 
of the week. There is — thirteenth month; a year 
has — twelve months. The twelve months of the year 
are: —, —, —, —, —, —, —, —, —, —, —, —. Sunday 
is the — day of the week. Saturday is the-of 
the week. 
How — days are there in a week? There are — days 
— a week. — many weeks has a month? A month 
has — weeks. — many weeks — three months? 
Three months-weeks.-months has a year? 
A year-months. — is the first month of the 
year? — is the first month of the year. — is the 
fourth day of the week? The fourth day of the 
week is —. — is the last month of the year? The 
last month of the year is —. — of the months of the 
year is the thirteenth? There is — thirteenth month; 
there are — twelve months — a year. 
EXERCISE B. 
How many months are there in a year?- 
-. How many days has a week?-. 
How many days have two weeks?-. How 
many weeks are there in a month?-. 
Which of the months of the year is the first?- 
-. What is the second month?- 
-. What is the third month?-. What 
is the fifth day of the week? 
20 
The Second (2nd) Chapter. 
Which of the days of the week is the eighth?- 
-. What is the twelfth month of the year? 
-. Which of the days of the week 
is the last?-. What is the thir¬ 
teenth month of the year?-. How 
many weeks have three months?-. 
has 
have 
what? 
which of? 
no 
only 
21 
