Chapter Twenty (20). 
The Twentieth (20th) Chapter. 
AT THE RESTAURANT 
happy = glad 
dress = frock 
late 
later 
latest 
On the evening when Mrs. Smith went to her friend’s 
on di i.vniy hwen misiz smip went td ha: frendz 
birthday party, Mr. Smith took the children to a res- 
ba:pdei pa:ti, mista smip tuk da tfildran tu a res¬ 
taurant for dinner. It was the first time that the 
tar ant jo: dina. it woz da fa:st taim dat da 
children had been to a restaurant, and they were very 
tfildran heed bi:n tu a restar ant, and dei wa: veri 
happy to go. Before they went, their father had to 
hcepi ta gou. bi'fo: dei went, dea fa:da heed ta 
see that they put on their best clothes. “Tell Helen 
si: dat dei put on dea best kloudz. “tel helin 
to put on her new green dress,” he said to John, “and 
ta put on ha: nju: gri:n dres,” hi: sed ta dyn, “and 
you can put on your new suit with the grey stripes.” 
ju: keen put on jua nju: sju:t wid da grei straips” 
A little later Mr. Smith went up to see if the children 
a litl leita mista smip went Ap ta si: if da tfildran 
were ready, and then he saw that Helen had not put 
wa: redi, and den hi: so: dat helin heed not put 
on her green dress. “Did you not tell her to put it on?” 
on ha: gri:n dres. “did ju: not tel ha: ta put it on?” 
The Twentieth (20th) Chapter. 
he asked John. “Yes, I told her what you said, but 
hi:. a:skt d$on. “jes, ai tould hd: hzvot ju: sed, hAt 
she said that the last time she had that dress on, she 
fi: sed ddt da la:st taim fi: heed deet dres on, ji: 
dropped some ice-cream on it, and now there is a spot 
dr opt s\m 'ais'kri:m on it, ,and nau dear iz a spot 
where the ice-cream has been.” “Oh, is there a spot on 
hwea di 'ais'kri:m hcez bi:n” “ou, iz dea a spot on 
the dress? Well, then she must put on another dress.” 
da dres? wel, den fi: m\st put on a'n\da dres” 
“No, come here, Helen,” said Aunt Jane, who had come 
“nou, k\m hia, helin,” sed a:nt d^ein, hu: heed k\m 
to look after the baby, “I shall take the spot away with 
ta luk a:fta da beibi, “ai feel teik da spot a'wei wid 
some hot water. There, now it is gone, and you can gone = away 
saw hot wo:ta. dea, nau it iz gon, and ju: keen 
be happy again. Oh, look, Baby has dropped her doll 
bi: heepi a'gein. ou, luk, beibi hcez dr opt ha: dol 
on the floor; will you pick it up for me? I am too old 
on da flo:; wil ju: pik it Ap fo: mi:? ai eem tu: ould 
don’t = do not 
to pick things up from the floor. Don’t give it to the 
ta pik piyz Ap from da flo:. dount giv it ta da 
baby, Helen; it is not clean, now it has been on the 
beibi, helin; it iz not kli:n, nau it hcez bi:n on da 
floor; we must wash it first. I shall have to tie it to 
flo:; mi: mAst wof it fa:st. ai feel hcev ta tai it ta 
string 
ha: bed zvid a pi:s av strifj sou dot fi: ka:nl drop it 
Have you got a 
penny? = Have 
you a penny? 
I’ll = I shall 
you’ll = you will 
he’ll = he will 
she’ll = she will 
it’ll = it will 
we’ll = we shall 
you’ll = you will 
they’ll = they 
will 
ourselves 
yourselves 
Something for 
ourselves. 
Something for 
yourselves. 
We wash our¬ 
selves. 
Wash yourselves, 
John and Helen! 
car 
as = because 
on the floor. Have you got a piece of string, Helen?” 
on ba flo:. hcev ju: got 9 pi:s dv striy, helin?” 
“No, Aunt Jane, but I know where there is some string. 
“nou, a:nt dyin, b\t ai nou hwea bear iz saw striy. 
Mamma has always got some string in the kitchen. 
ma'ma: hcez o:lwiz got saw, striy in bd kit Jon. 
I’ll go and get it for you.” “Thank you, my dear, you 
ail gou and get it fo: ju:” “ pceyk ju:, mai did, ju: 
are a very good little girl.” 
a: d veri gud litl ga:l.” 
“Let me look at you now, children. John, you have not 
(C let mi: luk cet ju: nau, tjildran. dyn, ju: hcev not 
tied your shoe-laces. Can’t such a big boy tie his own 
taid jud judeisiz. ka:nt SAtf a big boi tai hiz oun 
shoe-laces? Well, now you look fine, both of you. Here 
fu:leisizf wel, nau ju: luk fain, boup av ju:. hiar 
is a shilling to buy something good for yourselves, my 
iz a jiliy ta bai SAmpiy gud fo: jua'selvz, mai 
dears. Good-bye, now!” “Good-bye, Aunt Jane, and 
diaz. gud'bai, nau!” “gud'bai, a:nt dyin, and 
thank you for the money! We’ll buy chocolate for 
pceyk ju: fo: ba mAni! wi:l bai tfokalit fo: 
ourselves, and something good for Alice, too.” 
aua'selvz, and sAmpiy gud fo: celis, tu:” 
Mr. Smith wanted the children to have a good time 
mist a smip wontid ba tjildran ta hcev a gud taim 
that evening, and as the children liked very much to 
beet i:vniy, and cez ba tjildran laikt veri mAtf ta 
The Twentieth (20th) Chapter. 
ride in a car, he called a taxi. They rode for only ten 
raid in a ka:, hi: ka:ld a tceksi. dei roud fa: ounli ten 
minutes in the taxi, but if they had ridden in a tram, 
minits in dd tceksi, b\t if dei heed ridn in a treem, 
it would have taken them half an hour to get to the 
it wud hcev teikn dem ha:f an aua ta get ta da 
restaurant. The restaurant was one to which Mr. Smith 
restar ant. da restar ant waz w\n ta hwitf mist a smip 
often went when he had to have a meal in town. He 
a:fn went hwen hi: heed ta hcev a mi:l in taun. hi: 
had been there so often that the waiters knew his 
heed bi:n dea sou a:fn dat da weitaz nju: hiz 
name. 
neim. 
“Good evening, Mr. Smith,” said one of the waiters 
“gud i.vnirj, mist a smip, 93 sed w\n av da weitaz 
when they came into the restaurant, ‘Til find you a 
hwen dei keim inta da restar ant, (e ail faind ju: a 
good table. What will you have for dinner?” “What 
gud teibl. hwat wil ju: hcev fa: dinaf" (e hwat 
very good mutton with cabbage, and a fine vegetable 
veri gud mxtn wid kcebid 3 , and a fain vedytabl 
soup.” Mr. Smith: “How would you like that, children?” 
su:p." mista smip: “hau wud ju: laik deet, tjildran?" 
“That would be fine, daddy.” “And what would you 
(C dcet wud bi: fain, deedi” “and hwat wud ju: 
He rides, he rode, 
he has ridden. 
waiter 
often = many 
times 
He knows, he 
knew, he has 
known. 
mutton = the 
meat of sheep 
cabbage 
daddy = father 
let's = let us 
couldn't = could 
not 
cinema 
wee = little 
it's = it is 
like for a sweet?” “Oh, an ice-cream!” “Let's have 
laik fo: a swi:t?” “ou, an 1 ais'krirm!” “lets hcev 
soup and mutton then, two ice-creams with fruit, and 
su:p and mAtn den, tu: 'ais'kri:mz wid fru:t, end 
a cup of coffee for me, waiter.” “Yes, thank you, sir.” 
a kAp av kofi fo: mi:, weita.” “jes, pceyk ju:, sa:” 
“Don't you want some more cabbage, John? Cabbage 
“dount ju: want SAin mo: kcebid^, dynf kcebid 3 
is good for you.” “Yes, thank you; let me have a little 
iz gud fo: ju:” “jes, pceyk ju:; let mi: hcev a litl 
more cabbage before we have the sweet.” 
mo: kcebid 3 bi'fo: mi: hcev da swi:t” 
“Well, children, have you had enough to eat? What 
(C wel, tjildran, hcev ju: heed i'nAf tu i:t? hwot 
shall we do now?” “Oh, daddy, couldn't we go to a 
feel wi: du: nauf” “ou, deedi, kudnt mi: gou tu a 
cinema and see a picture? There is a very good picture 
sinama and si: a piktja? dear iz a veri gud piktfa 
on at the ‘Nelson Cinema’. It is an old picture with 
on cet da *nelsn sinama 9 . it iz an ould piktja wid 
Shirley Temple, who played in ‘Wee Willie WinkieV' 
fa:li tempi, hu: pleid in *wi: wili wiyki 9 ” 
Mr. Smith: “It's your evening, and I want you to have 
mist a smip: “its jua i:vnitj, and ai wont ju: ta hcev 
a good time, so let us go and see that picture. At what 
a gud taim, sou let as gou and si: deet piktfa. cet hwot 
time does it begin?” “It begins at half past seven.” 
taint dAZ it bi'ginf” “it bi'ginz cet ha:f pa:st sevn.” 
The Twentieth (20th) Chapter. 
“Then we must go now. Waiter, I want to pay the He pays, he paid, 
“den wi: mASt gou nau. weitd, ai wont td pei dd ^ as ^ ai ^‘ 
bill; how much is it, please?” “Twelve shillings and 
bil; hau mAtf iz it, pli:z?” “twelv filiyz and 
one and sixpence for yourself.” “Thank you, sir; shall 
wAn and sikspans fa: fua'self” “pceyk ju:, sa:; feel 
I get you a taxi?” “No, thank you, it’s not very far; 
ai get ju: a tceksi?” “nou, pceyk ju:, its not vert fa:; 
we’ll walk.” 
wi:l wa:k” 
At the Cinema. 
Mr. Smith to the lady at the booking-office: “Three 
mist a smip ta da leidi cet da bukiyafis: “pri: 
tickets, please!” The lady: “Are the two children with 
tikits, pli:z!” da leidi: “a: da tu: tfildran wid 
you, sir? Then you only have to pay half price for their 
ju:, sa:? den ju: ounli hcev ta pei ha:f prais fa: dea 
tickets. Three shillings and sixpence (3/6).” 
tikits. pri: jiliyz and sikspans (pri: and siks).” 
Mr. Smith paid for the tickets with a pound (£ 1) note. 
mist a smip peid fa: da tikits wid a pound nout. 
“Is it a good picture?” he asked when he picked up the 
“iz it a gud piktfa?” hi: a:skt hwen hi: pikt Ap da 
coins which she gave him. “Yes, very good,” she said. 
kainz hwitf ji: geiv him. (C jes, veri gud,” fi: sed. 
“All the children have been so happy to see it.” 
“a:l da tfildran heev bi:n sou heepi ta si: it” 
The children looked at the pictures on the walls near 
da tfildran lukt cat da piktfaz an da wa:lz nia 
the booking-office, and before they went into the cinema, 
da bukiyafis, and bi'fa: dei went inta da sinama, 
they went to the chocolate-shop to buy something with 
dei went ta da tfakalitfap ta bat SAmpiy wid 
their shilling. “Two pieces of milk-chocolate, please,” 
dea filiy. “tu: pi:siz av milktfakalit, pli:z” 
John said and gave the coin to the lady. “Here is your 
dyn sed and geiv da kain ta da leidi. “hiar iz jua 
chocolate,” she said, “that will be sixpence (6d).” 
tjakalit” fi: sed, “dcet wil bi: sikspans” 
They rode home in a taxi, and when they got home, 
dei roud houm in a tceksi, and hwen dei gat houm, 
John and Helen thanked their father for the good time 
dyn and helin peeykt dea fa:da fa: da gud taint 
they had had. They said it was the best time that they 
dei heed heed. dei sed it waz da best taim dat dei 
had had for a long time, and that it was much better 
heed heed fa: a lay taim, and dat it waz mAtf beta 
than to be with their mother at a birthday party for 
deen ta bi: wid dea mAda eet a ba:pdei pa:ti fa: 
ladies, who talked and talked all the evening. When 
leidiz, hu: ta:kt and ta:kt a:l di i.vniy. hwen 
they got home, Mrs. Smith had not yet come back from 
dei gat houm, misiz smip heed nat jet kAm beek fram 
The Twentieth (20th) Chapter. 
the party. So Mr. Smith told the children to go up 
da pa:ti. sou mist a smip tould da tjildran ta gou \p 
to bed, and then he said: “Please ask Aunt Jane to 
ta bed, and den hi: sed: “pli:z a:sk a:nt d^ein ta 
come down. If you like, you can bring your night- 
k\m daun. if ju: laik, ju: keen briy jua nait- 
clothes down and dress for the night in the warm room. 
kloudz daun and dres fa: da nait in da wa:m ru:m. 
Aunt Jane and I will have a cup of tea now, and then 
a:nt dyin and ai wil hcev a k\p av ti: nau, and den 
you can tell her where we have been, and what we have 
ju: keen tel ha: hwea wi: hcev bi:n, and hwat wi: hcev 
seen. And then you can also give Aunt Jane this piece 
si:n. and den ju: keen a:lsou giv a:nt d$ein dis pi:s 
of chocolate that I have bought for her because she has 
av tfakalit dat ai hcev ba:t fa: ha: bfkaz fi: hcez 
looked after Baby to-night.” 
lukt a:fta beibi ta'nait” 
EXERCISE A. 
WORDS: 
restaurant 
dress 
happy 
drop 
spot 
pick up 
tie 
string 
shoe-lace 
ourselves 
yourselves 
as 
ride 
rode 
ridden 
car 
taxi 
often 
waiter 
knew 
mutton 
cabbage 
daddy 
sweet 
cinema 
picture 
wee 
pay 
paid 
booking-office 
ticket 
note 
coin 
milk-chocolate 
chocolate-shop 
gone 
Aunt Jane said, and the children answered, “We shall 
EXERCISE B. 
