Chapter Twenty-One (21). 
The Twenty-First (21st) Chapter. 
THE STUDY OF ENGLISH 
One winter evening in a small European town, three 
wah wintar i:vniy in a smo:l juara'pian taun, pri: 
young men came together in the home of one of their 
jAy men keim ta'geda in da houm av WAn av dear 
old teachers. They had not been taught English at 
ould ti'.tfaz. dei had not bi:n ta:t iygli / at 
school, and in their work they had seen many times 
sku:l, and in dea wa:k dei had si:n meni taimz 
that it would be a good thing for them to know some 
dat it wud bi: a gud piy fa: dam ta nou sAin 
English. So five months ago, they wrote a letter to 
iyglif. sou faiv mAnps a'gou, dei rout a let a ta 
one of the teachers of their old school and asked him 
WAn av da ti:tfaz av dear ould sku:l and a:skt him 
to teach them English. They knew that he had been to 
ta ti:tf dam iyglif. dei nju: dat hi: had bi:n tu 
England several times, and that he spoke the language 
iy gland sevral taimz, and dat hi: spouk da Iceygwid 3 
well. He was glad to hear that they were interested 
wel. hi: waz glced ta hia dat dei wa: intristid 
in English, and answered that he would like very much 
in iyglif, and a:nsad dat hi: wud laik veri wa// 
to teach them. They began their study of English 
ta ti:tf dam. dei bi'gcen dea stAdi av iyglif 
a European town 
= a town in 
Europe 
He teaches, 
he taught, 
he has taught 
[t\:tjiz, to:t, to:t]. 
several times = 
more than one 
time 
He speaks, 
he spoke, 
he has spoken 
[spi:ks, spouk, 
spouk on]. 
6/1 
twics = two times 
were to come = 
should come 
once = one time 
end of book, 
to be asleep= 
to sleep 
four months ago, and had come to the house of their 
fo: mAnps a'gou, and had k\m ta da haus av dea 
teacher several times every week, sometimes twice a 
ti:tfa sevral taimz evri wi:k, SAmtaimz twais a 
week and sometimes three times a week. If they were to 
wi:k and SAmtaimz pri: taimz a wi:k. if dei wa: ta 
come only once a week, it would take too long to learn 
kA m ounli WAns a wi:k, it wud teik tu: loy ta la:n 
English. They had read about the Smith family and 
iyglif. dei had red a'baut da smip fcemili and 
were almost at the end of the book. 
wa: o.lmoust at di end av da buk. 
Now the young men were in their teacher’s sitting-room, 
nau da jAtj men wa: in dea ti:tjaz sitiyrum, 
ready to begin their studies. They were alone at first, 
redi ta bigin dea stAdiz. dei wa: a'lonn at fa:st, 
but at ten minutes past eight their teacher came in. 
bAt at ten minits pa:st eit dea ti:tja keim in. 
“Good evening, boys,” he said when he came in; “I am 
“gud i:vniy, boiz” hi: sed hwen hi: keim in; “ai am 
a little late to-night. I had to put my little son to bed, 
a litl leit ta'nait. ai heed ta put mai litl SAn ta bed, 
because my wife is not at home, and I had to wait 
bikoz mai waif iz not at houm, and ai heed ta weit 
until he was asleep, or he would call all the time.” 
An'til hi: waz a'sli:p, o: hi: wud ko:l o:l da taim.” 
“I have never seen your son,” said one of the young 
“ai hav neva si:n jo: SAn,” sed wah av da ]ay) 
The Twenty-First (21st) Chapter. 
men; “couldn't we go and have a look at him?” “Yes,” 
men; “kudnt wi: gou and hcev d luk at himf” “jes,” 
the teacher answered, “but we shall have to be quiet. 
da ti.tfar a: ns ad, “bAt wi: jal hcev ta bi: kwaiat. 
If we make a noise, he will wake up from his sleep, 
if wi: meik a naiz, hi: wil weik Ap fram hiz sli:p, 
and then it will be a long time before he goes to sleep 
and den it wil bi: a by taim bi'fj: hi: gouz ta sli:p 
again.” 
a'gein” 
So they went up into the bedroom to have a look at 
sou dei went Ap inta da bedrum ta hcev a luk at 
the sleeping child. “He is very quiet now, because 
da sli'.piy tfaild. “hi: iz veri kwaiat nau, bi'koz 
he is sleeping,” the teacher said when they came down 
hi: iz sli'.piy , 93 da ti:tfa sed hwen dei keim daun 
again, “but when he is awake, he makes a great noise 
a'gein, “bAt hwen hi: iz a'weik, hi: meiks a greit noiz 
all the time. I must go up now and then to see that 
o:l da taim. ai mAst gou Ap nau and den ta si: dat 
he is warm enough, because my wife says that he is 
hi: iz wo:m i'nAf, bi'kaz mai waif sez dat hi: iz 
beginning a cold. He is sleeping in our room to-night, 
bi'giniy a kould. hi: iz sli'.piy in aua ru:m ta'nait, 
Well, let us go back to our studies. You know that 
wel, let as gou bcek tu aua stAdiz. ju: nou dat 
He wakes, 
he woke, 
he has waked 
[weiks, wotik, 
weikt]. 
great = big 
now and then = 
from time to time 
The child sleeps 
every night. 
The child is 
sleeping now. 
The girl has a 
smile on her face; 
she has a smiling 
face; she is 
smiling now. She 
often smiles. 
He learns, he 
learned, he has 
learned = he 
learns, he learnt, 
he has learnt 
[la:nz, h:nt, hint]. 
parents always talk too much about their children,” the. 
pearants a:lwaz ta:k tu: mAtf a'baut dee tfildran, 33 da 
teacher said with a smile on his face. “Oh, that is all 
ti:tfa sed wid a smail on hiz feis. “ou, dcet iz e:l 
right,” one of the young men answered, smiling. 
rait,” wau av da ]ay} men a: used, smailiy. 
An hour later, they got to the end of the last exercise 
an aua leita, dei got ta di end av da la:st eksasaiz 
about the Smith family. They had given the answers 
a'baut da smip fcemili. dei had givn di arnsez 
to all the questions in the exercises except the last one, 
tu a:l da kwestjanz in di eksasaiziz ik'sept da la:stwAn, 
and now the teacher asked one of the young men the 
and nau da ti.tfar a:skt WAn av da ]Afj men da 
last question, “Did the children have a good time?” 
la:st kwestfan, “did da tfildran hcev a gud taim?” 
The young man gave the answer: “Yes, they had the 
da jAy moen geiv di a:nsa: “jes, dei heed da 
best time they had had for a long time.” “That is 
best taim dei had heed far a lay taim. 33 “dcet iz 
right,” said the teacher, “and now I want to talk to 
rait, 39 sed da ti:tfa, “end nau ai want ta ta:k ta 
you about something new. You have learnt English 
ju: a'baut SAinpiy nju:. ju: hev le:nt iyglif 
now for four months, and you already know many 
nau fa fa: mAnps, and ju: a:l'redi nou meni 
words. Sometimes we speak English together, but from 
wa:dz. SAmtaimz ivi: spi:k iyglif ta'gede, bAt fram 
The Twenty-First (21st) Chapter. 
now on I want you to speak English always when we 
nau on ai wont ju: td spi:k iyglij o:lwdZ hwen wi: 
do our study work. How do you like that idea?” “It 
du: aus stAdi wd:k. hau du: ju: laik dcet at did? 33 “it 
is a good idea, and I like it very much,” one of the young 
iz d gud at did, and ai laik it veri mAtf, 33 wau 3V d3 jAfj 
men answered, and the others also said that the idea 
men a: ns 3d, snd di Addz o:lsou sed d3t di at did 
was good. “It would be a good idea to begin now, 
W3z gud. “it wud bi: 3 gud at did t3 hi gin nau, 
to-night,” the teacher said. “I will try to put the 
td'nait, 33 d3 ti:tfd sed. “ai wil trai t3 put d3 
words together in such a way that you will be able to 
W3:dz td'gedd in SAtf 3 wei d3t ju: wil bi: eibl tu 
understand the new words, and if you do not understand 
Atidd'stcend dd nju: W3:dz, dnd if ju: du: not Andd'stcend 
what a word means, just ask me what the meaning of 
hwot 3 W3:d mi:nz, d$Ast a:sk mi: hwot dd mi:niy 3v 
it is, and I will explain it to you in some other way, 
it iz, 3nd ai ml iks'plein it t3 ju: in SAm Add wei, 
everything I said now?” “Yes, we understood every 
evripiy ai sed nau? 33 “jes, wi: And 3 'stud evri 
word, also the new words.” 
wd.d, o:lsou dd nju: ws:dz. 33 
One of the young men: “I have a good idea! It would 
WAn 3V dd jAy men: “ai hcev 3 gud at did! it wud 
He understands, 
he understood, 
he has understood 
[ a ndd'stands, 
a ndo'stud, 
a nda'stud]. 
It means, it meant, 
it has meant 
[mi:ns, ment, ment]. 
6/2 
He feels, he felt, 
he has felt 
[fids, felt , felt]. 
be much better to use English names when we speak 
bi: niAtf beta td ju:z iyglif neimz hwen wi: spi:k 
English.” “Yes,” the teacher answered; “the English 
iyglij” “jes,” da ti:tjar a: ns ad; “di iyglif 
word for my name would be Miller, and your name 
wa:d fa tnai neim wud bi: mil a, and jo: neim 
would be Brown.” “Tell us the English words for our 
wud bi: braun.” “tel as di iyglif zva:dz far ana 
names, too,” the other young men asked the teacher. 
neimz, tu:,” di Ada jAy men a:skt da ti:tja. 
“Your name,” he said to one of them, “would be Storm, 
“jo: neim” hi: sed ta zvAn av dam, “wud bi: sto:m, 
and your name,” he said to the other, “would be Wood. 
and jo: neim,” hi: sed ta di Ada, “wud bi: wud. 
It is a good idea; from to-night we will all be English 
it iz a gud ai'dia; fram ta'nait wi: zvil o:l bi: iyglif 
people twice a week.” “I am already beginning to feel 
pi:pi twais a zvi:k ” “ai am o:l'redi bi'giniy ta fi:l 
very English,” Brown said. “Well, the name is not 
veri iyglif, yy braun sed. “wel, da neim iz not 
enough for me to feel English,” said Wood; “I shall 
i y nAf fa mi: ta fi:l iyglif, 33 sed wud; “ai fal 
have to hear my new name several times before I can 
hcev ta hia mai nju: neim sevral taimz bi'fo: ai kan 
remember who Mr. Wood is. I am writing it down in 
ri'memba hu: mist a wud iz. ai am raitiy it daun in 
my book now to remember my new name. What is it, 
mai buk nau ta ri'memba mai nju: neim. hwot iz it, 
The Twenty-First (21st) Chapter. 
Storm, why are you so quiet?” “I am just trying to 
sto:m, hwai a: ju: sou kwaiatf” “cii am d^Ast traiiy ta 
remember my new name, too.” “When you have heard 
ri'memba mai nju: neim, tu:.” “hwen ju: hav ha:d 
it three or four times, you will not forget it,” said 
it pri: o: fa: taimz, ju: wil not fa'get it,” sed 
Mr. Miller. 
mista mila. 
He forgets, he 
forgot, he has 
forgotten Ifa'gets, 
fa'got, fa'gotn]. 
“You have forgotten that you have been asked to look 
“ju: hav fa'gotn dat ju: hav bi:n a:skt ta luk 
after the boy, Mr. Miller; he is calling you now,” said 
a:fta da boi, mista mila; hi: iz ko:liy ju: nau,” sed 
Brown. “Oh, and my wife is coming in through the 
braun. “on, and mai waif iz kAiniy in pru: da 
garden now; what will she say when she finds the boy 
ga:dn nau; Jnvot wil fi: sei hwen fi: faindz da boi 
awake? I shall have to explain to her that we had 
a'weik? ai fal hcev tu iks'plein ta ha: dat wi: heed 
so much to talk about to-night that we forgot him. 
sou niAtf ta to:k a'baut ta'nait dat wi: fa'got him. 
I hope he will go to sleep again and have a good sleep 
ai houp hi: wil gou ta sli:p a'gein and hcev a gud sli:p 
all night. Last night he woke up three times.” 
o:l nait. la:st nait hi: wouk Ap pri: taimz” 
“I want to ask you a question,” Storm said to the others 
“aizvont tu a:sk ju: a kwestfan” sto:m sed ta di \daz 
when the teacher had gone up to the boy. “What does 
hzven da ti:tfa had gon Ap ta da boi. “hwot d.\z 
the word ‘explain’ mean? I did not like to ask the 
da wa:d € iks'plein y mi:nf ai did nat laik tu a:sk da 
teacher about it, because I could see that you two 
ti.tfar a'baut it, bi'kaz ai kud si: dat ju: tu: 
understood it.” “Yes, I understood it,” Wood answered; 
Anda'stud it” “jes, ai Anda'stud it ” wild a:nsad; 
“it means to give the meaning of something, or to tell 
“it mi:nz ta giv da mi: nit) av s Am pit), a: ta tel 
why something is done, or how it is done.” “Oh yes; 
hwai SAmpirj iz dAn , j: hau it iz dAti” “ou jes; 
when you say it in this way, I understand what it 
hwen ju: sei it in dis wei, ai Anda'stcend hwat it 
means. Thank you!” 
mi:nz. pcerjk ju:!” 
When Mr. Miller came down again, he said to the young 
hwen mista mila keim daun a'gein, hi: sed ta da jAt) 
men, “I hope you will have a cup of coffee with us. 
men t “ai houp ju: zvil hcev a kAp av kafi wid as. 
My wife has already made the coffee and is now putting 
mai waif haz ad'redi meid da kafi and iz mu putirj 
the cups on the table. She will be interested to hear 
da kAps an da teibl. fi: wil bi: intristid ta Jtia 
you speak English, because she has been to England 
ju: spi:k iyglif, bi'kaz fi: haz bi:n tu itjgland 
with me several times and speaks the language very 
wid mi: sevral taimz and spi:ks da laygwid 3 veri 
well.” “I don’t feel hungry,” said Wood; “but I would 
wel” “ai dount fi:l hAtjgri” sed wud; “bAt ai wud 
The Twenty-First (21st) Chapter. 
like a cup of coffee and a talk with your wife about the 
laik a kxp dv kofi and a to:k wid jo: waif a'baut da 
language we are all so interested in.” 
Iceygwid 3 wi: a: o:l son intristid in” 
EXERCISE A. 
English. 
it in English. 
Had Mr. Miller remembered that he had been asked 
WORDS: 
European 
teach 
taught 
several 
interested 
very much 
twice 
once 
end 
at first 
asleep 
quiet 
noise 
wake 
woke 
waked 
awake 
great 
now and then 
smile 
smile (verb) 
exercise 
already 
idea 
understand 
understood 
meant 
meaning 
explain 
feel 
felt 
remember 
forget 
forgot 
forgotten 
study 
look 
way 
question 
answer 
spoke 
spoken 
sleep 
learnt 
speaking 
calling 
sleeping 
beginning 
smiling 
coming 
writing 
Miller 
Brown 
Storm 
Wood 
EXERCISE B. 
How many times a week did they come to their teacher’s 
Who got the idea that they should use English names? 
EXERCISE C. 
How to ask and answer questions with ‘where’. 
Helen is at school. Where were John and Helen when 
Daisy’s husband was on the first floor when the guests 
The Norwegians live in Norway. Where did George 
Where did they go after they had dined at the restau¬ 
the cinema, they went home. Where did Mrs. Smith get 
