Chapter Twenty-Two (22). 
The Twenty-Second (22nd) Chapter. 
A GOOD IDEA 
Our three young friends have come to their teacher’s 
aud pri: jAy frendz hdv kAm td ded ti:tjdz 
house again to learn English. They have been working 
haus d'gein td h:n iyglif. dei hdv bi:n wd.’kiy 
at their studies for an hour and are now having a cup 
dt ded stAdiz fdr dn aud dnd a: nan hceviy d kAp 
of coffee. 
dv kdfi . 
Brown: “Mr. Miller, this evening when I was walking 
braun: “mistd mild, dis i.vniy hwen ai Wdz wo:kiy 
home from work, I thought of the idea you told us 
houm frdm wd:k, ai po:t dv di at did ju: tould as 
about the other evening, to speak nothing but English 
d'baut di Add i.vniy, td spi:k tiApiy bAt iyglif 
when we are together. I said to myself that when 
hwen wi: a: td'gebd. ai sed td matself ddt hwen 
the four of us have talked English for some time, it 
dd fo:r dv as hdv to:kt iyglif fd SAm taim, it 
would be a good thing to try to talk to some English 
wud bi: d gud piy td trai td to:k td sam iyglif 
people. ‘But where do you find English people to talk 
pi:pi. ‘bAt hwed du: ju: faind iyglif pi:pi td td:k 
to?* I asked myself. I couldn’t think of an answer to 
tu? y ai a:skt matself . ai kudnt piyk dv dn a:nsd td 
but (here) = 
except 
that question at once; but when I was sitting at supper, 
deet kwestfdn at wayis; b\t hwen ai waz sitiy at SApa, 
I thought of this idea, ‘Why not make a trip to England? 
ai po:t av dis ai'dia, ‘hwai rut meik a trip tu iygland? 
Then there would be enough English people to talk to!’ 
den dea wud bi: i'nAf iyglif pi:pi ta to:k tu! 9 
What do you think of that idea?” 
hwot du: ju: piyk av dcet ai'dia?” 
Mr. Miller: “I think it would be a very good idea if 
mist a mila: “ai piyk it wud bi: a veri gud ai'dia if 
you could all make a trip to England together.” Storm: 
ju: kud o:l meik a trip tu iy gland ta'geda.” sto:m: 
“I have another question to ask you, Mr. Miller. Do you 
“ai hcev a'nAda kwestjan tu a:sk ju:, mist a mila. du: ju: 
think that you could come with us yourself?” Wood: 
piyk dat ju: kud kAin wid as ja:'self?” wud: 
“Yes, you know England and the English so well; but 
“jes, ju: nou iy gland and di iyglif sou wel; bAt 
perhaps you do not want to go to England again, 
pa'keeps ju: du: not wont ta gou tu iy gland a'gein, 
because you have been there so many times already?” 
bi'koz ju: hav bi:rt dea sou meni taimz o:l'redi?” 
one wife, 
two wives 
Mr. Miller: “Perhaps, and perhaps not. I shall have 
mist a mila: “pa'keeps, and pa'keeps not. ai fal keev 
to think more about it. You know I have a wife and 
ta piyk mo:r a'baut it. ju: nou ai keev a waif and 
a child to think of! But you have no wives to think of 
a tfaild ta piyk ov! bAt ju: keev nou waivz ta piyk ov 
The Twenty-Second (22nd) Chapter. 
yet. As you said yourself, Wood, I have made many 
jet. az ju: sed j a:'self, wud, ai hav meid meni 
trips to England, so there are few places where I have 
trips tu iy gland, sou dear a: fju: pleisiz hwear ai hav 
not been before, but, on the other hand, it is several 
nat bi:n bi'fa:, bAt, an di Ada hcend, it iz sevral 
years since I was there last time, and since then many 
jiaz sins ai waz dea la:st taim, and sins den meni 
things have changed, that is, they are not the same 
piyz hav tfeind^d, dcet iz, dei a: nat da seim 
now as they were then. You know that most people 
nau az dei wa: den. ju: nou dat moust pi:pi 
think that the English are very conservative, that is, 
piyk dat di iyglif a: veri kan'sa:vativ, dcet iz, 
they like old ideas better than modern ones, and are 
dei laik ould ai'diaz beta dan madan wahz, and a: 
not glad to change things. I do not think that people 
nat glced ta tjeind j pirjz. ai du: nat piyk dat pi:pi 
are right in this. The English of to-day are not the 
a: rait in dis. di iyglif dv ta'dei a: nat da 
same as the English of some years ago, so there will 
seim az di iyglif dv saiu jiaz a'gou, sou dea wil 
also be new things for me to learn on another trip to 
a:lsou bi: nju: pirjz fa mi: ta la:n an a'nAda trip tu 
England. I must say that of all the foreign countries 
iy gland. ai mAst sei dat av a:l da farin kAtitriz 
I have seen, I have found England the most interesting.” 
ai hav si:n, ai hav faund iy gland da moust intf istiy.” 
few = not many 
one 
ones 
Do you like an old 
house better than 
a modern one? 
Do you like old 
ideas better than 
modern ones? 
6/3 
He spends, 
he spent, 
he has spent 
[spends, spent,spent ]. 
like = the same as 
world 
the whole world 
= all the world 
Storm: “I have never been to a foreign country before; 
sta:m: “ai hdv nevd bi:n tu a for in kAntri bi'fo:; 
I have spent all my holidays in our own country. The 
ai hdv spent o:l mai holidiz in auar oun kAntri. da 
last five years I have spent my summer-holidays with 
la:st faiv jiaz ai hav spent mai sAmahalidiz void 
my parents in the country, where they have a small 
mai pearants in da kAntri, hwea dei hcev a sma:l 
house near a lake. But it would be a good thing to 
haus niar a leik. bAt it wud bi: a gud piy ta 
try something new this year. Of all foreign countries 
trai SAMpitj nju: dis jia. av a:l for in kAntriz 
I am most interested in England, just like you, Mr. 
ai am moust intristid in iy gland, d$ASt laik ju:, mist a 
Miller. If we make the trip, we must visit the British 
mil a. if wi: meik da trip, wi: mAst vizit da britif 
Museum one of the first days we are in London. It 
mju'ziam WAn av da fa:st deiz wi: a: in l And an. it 
is one of the greatest museums, not only in Europe, 
iz WAn av da greitist mju'ziamz, not ounli in juarap, 
but in the whole world. I have seen a picture of the 
bAt in da houl wa:ld. ai hav si:n a piktjar av da 
museum, and I know that inside it there are so many 
mju'ziam, and ai nou dat 'in'said it dear a: sou meni 
things which we must see. I should like to spend 
piyz hwitf wi: mAst si:. ai fud laik ta spend 
several hours there every day.” 
sevral auaz dea evri dei.” 
The Twenty-Second (22nd) Chapter. 
Mr. Miller: “And you can. I know a hotel in the same 
mistd mile: “and ju: keen. ai nou a hou'tel in da seim 
part of the town as the British Museum. I have always 
pa:t av da taun az da britif mju'ziam. ai hav a:lwaz 
lived there when I have been in London. It is a good 
livd dea hwen ai hav bi:n in Ixndan. it iz a gud 
hotel, and cheap, too, so if we go, I think we will live 
hou'tel, and tfi:p, tu:, sou if wi: gou, ai pitjk wi: wil liv 
there as long as we are in London. Then you can 
dea az log az wi: a: in lAndan. den ju: kan 
visit the British Museum as often as you like, Storm. 
vizit da britif mju'ziam az o:fn az ju: laik, sto:m. 
It is only a few minutes’ walk from the hotel. The 
it iz ounli a fju: minits wo:k fram da hou'tel. da 
first seven or eight days we could spend in London 
fa:st sevn o:r eit deiz wi: kud spend in lAndan 
itself. There are many things to be seen in a big town 
it'self. dear a: meni pigz to bi: si:n in a big taun 
like London, so that a week would not be too much 
laik lAndan, sou dat a wi:k wud not bi: tu: mAtf 
for us to spend in London itself. Then we could visit 
far as ta spend in lAndan it'self. den wi: kud vizit 
some places just outside London, where the Thames 
SAm pleisiz d$Ast 'aut'said lAndan , hwea da temz 
is not the same dirty river as in the town itself. I 
iz not da seim da:ti riva az in da taun it'self. ai 
river 
often spent a whole day on the river Thames in summer 
o:fn spent a houl dei on da riva temz in SAma 
steamer 
think 
am thinking 
thought 
was thinking 
have thought 
have been 
thinking 
I think of a trip 
to England now 
and then. 
I am thinking of a 
trip to England 
now. 
I thought of a trip 
to England 
yesterday. 
I was thinking of 
a trip to England 
when he came into 
the room. 
I have thought of 
a trip to England 
many times. 
I have just been 
thinking of a trip 
to England. 
that 
those 
I like that house. 
I like those houses. 
my grandparents 
= my parents* 
parents 
my grandmother 
= the mother of 
one of my parents 
my grandfather = 
the father of one 
of my parents 
when the weather was fine. There are small steamers 
hwen da we da waz fain. dear a: smo:l sti:maz 
to take you from place to place. It is not very far 
ta teik ju: fram pleis fa pleis. it iz not veri fa: 
from our hotel to the river, so that we could go down 
fram ana hou'tel ta da riva, sou dat wi: kud gou daun 
there one day and look at the steamers.” 
dea wan dei and luk at da sti:maz ." 
Mrs. Miller: “I think the idea you have been talking 
misiz mila: “ai piyk di ai'dia ju: hav bi:n to:kiy 
about just now is a very good one. I should like to 
a'baut d^Ast nau iz a veri gud wah. ai jud laik ta 
go with you on the trip to England, but I can’t. We 
gou wid ju: on da trip tu iygland, bAt ai ka:nt. zvi: 
can’t take the boy on a trip like that, he is too small; 
ka:nt teik da boi on a trip laik dcet, hi: iz tu: smo:l; 
just think of him on a steamer! He and I will spend 
d$Ast piyk av him on a sti:ma! hi: and ai wil spend 
those few weeks with my parents; they will be only 
douz fju: wi:ks wid mai pear ants; dei wil bi: ounli 
too glad to have us. You know what grandparents 
tu: glced ta hcev as. ju: nou hwot grcendp ear ants 
are the best in the whole world. The boy’s grand- 
a: da best in da houl wa:ld. da boiz grcend- 
mother lets him do everything he wants to, and his 
mAda lets him du: evripiy hi: wonts tu, and hiz 
The Twenty-Second (22nd) Chapter. 
grandfather buys so many things for him to play with 
grcendfa.da baiz sou meni piyz fd him ta plei wid 
that I don't know what to do with them. It will be 
dat ai dount nou hwat ta du: wid dam . it wil bi: 
so good for the boy to be at a farm in the country; 
sou gud fa da boi ta bi: at a fa:m in da k\ntri; 
he can play outside in the sun all day, and we shall 
hi: kan plei 'aut'said in da s\n o:l dei, and wi: fal 
both have a good time.” 
boup hav a gud taim” 
Mr. Miller: “Well, if you feel like that, my dear, I shall 
mist a mil a: “wel, if ju: fi:l laik dcet, mai did, ai fal 
be glad to go. It would be good to see old England 
bi: glced ta gou. it wud bi: gud ta si: ould iy gland 
again with these young men.” Storm: “We are glad 
a'gein wid di:z ]ayj men” sto:m: “wi: a: glced 
to hear that. Well, boys, it's time to go home, I think. 
ta hia dcet. wel, baiz, its taim ta gou howm, ai piyk. 
One doesn't think of that when it is so warm inside.” 
WAn dAznt piyk av dcet hwen it iz sou wa:m 'in'said” 
EXERCISE A. 
WORDS: 
trip 
perhaps 
few 
since 
change 
conservative 
modern 
foreign 
spend 
spent 
like 
visit 
British 
hotel 
place 
outside 
Thames 
river 
steamer 
world 
inside 
grandparents 
grandfather 
grandmother 
grandchild 
interesting 
walk 
whole 
museum 
just 
ones 
but 
working 
walking 
country. 
EXERCISE B. 
What was Brown doing when he thought of a trip to 
countries he has visited has Mr. Miller found the most 
at the farm that Mrs. Miller will go to when her husband 
EXERCISE C. 
How to ask and answer questions with <how’. 
How many children are there in the Smith family? 
The Twenty-Second (22nd) Chapter. 
hours in a day and a night. How old is Mr. Smith? 
years old when she got her watch. How far is it from 
two hours in a car from the farm to the city. How 
ten years. How much did Mrs. Smith pay for her new 
wife twelve pounds. How often does Mr. Smith visit 
The children go to school five days a week. 
