Chapter Twenty-Three (23). 
The Twenty-Third (23rd) Chapter. 
MAKING PLANS 
start = begin 
The next time the young men were together to study 
da nekst taint da jAy men wa: ta'geda ta st\di 
English, they had much to talk about. All of them had 
itjglif, dei heed MAtf ta to:k a'baut. o:l av dam had 
been thinking about the trip and making plans. They 
bi:n piykiy a'baut da trip and meikiy plcenz. dei 
had talked to their families about it and asked people 
had ta:kt ta dea fcemiliz a'baut it and a:skt pi:pl 
who had visited England about the best time to go there. 
hu: had vizitid iygland a'baut da best taim ta gou dea. 
Their families were very much interested in the plans, 
dea fcemiliz wa: veri mAtf intristid in da plcenz, 
but thought that the young men would not be able to 
bAt po:t dat da jAy men wud not bi: eibl ta 
learn to speak English well enough before they were 
la:n ta spi:k iyglij wel i'nAf bi'fo: dei wa: 
to go. Storm told the others that his brother smiled 
ta gou. sta:m tould di Adaz dat hiz brAda smaild 
when he spoke about the trip, as if he thought that 
hwen hi: spouk a'baut da trip, az if hi: po:t dat 
they would not be able to make it. “‘Well, wait and 
dei wud not bi: eibl ta meik it. “‘zvel, w n M and 
see, 5 I tell him,” Storm said, smiling; “‘when we start 
si:, 9 ai tel him/ 3 sto:m sed, smailiy; cct hwen wi: sta:t 
196 
The Twenty-Third (23rd) Chapter. 
on our trip, and you must stay at home because you 
on aua trip, and ju: mAst stei dt houm bi'koz ju: 
don’t speak English, I shall be the one to smile.’ And 
dount spi:k iyglif, ai fdl bi: da WAn ta smail. y and 
I think that when he sees us start on our trip next 
ai piyk dat hwen hi: si:z as sta:t on aua trip nekst 
summer, you will have him as a pupil in the autumn, 
SAma, ju: wil hcev him az a pju:pl in di o:tam, 
Mr. Miller!” 
mista mild!” 
Mr. Miller was very glad to hear that his three pupils 
mista mila waz veri glad ta hia dat hiz pri: pju:plz 
felt that they would be able to learn enough. “I hope 
felt dat dci zvud bi: eibl ta la:n i'n\f. “ai houp 
you know that you must do much work before the 
jn: nou dat jn: niAst du: mAtf wa:k bi'fo: da 
summer-holidays. When we make our plans and talk 
SAinaholidiz . hwen wi: meik aua plcenz and to:k 
about all the things that we are going to do, you will 
a'baut o:l da piyz dat zvi: a: gouiy ta du:, ju: wil 
learn many words that you are going to use on the 
lain meni wa:dz dat ju: a: gouiy ta ju:z on da 
trip. So the more we talk about it, the better you 
trip, sou da mo: zvi: to:k a'baut it, da beta ju: 
will be able to make yourselves understood on the trip 
wil bi: eibl ta meik joi'sclvz And a'stud on da trip 
itself,” said Mr. Miller. “First we must decide when 
it'self/* sed mista mila. “fa:st wi: niAst di'said hwen 
I am the one to 
smile = I am he 
who can smile. 
I am going to do 
something = I 
shall do something. 
the ... the 
The more we do, 
the better it is. 
197 
Chapter Twenty-Three (23). 
upon = on 
manager 
we want to go, and you three will have to decide how 
wi: wont ta gou, and ju: pri: wil hcev ta di'said hau 
long we are going to stay in England. My holidays are 
lay wi: a: gouiy ta stei in iygland. mai holidiz a: 
two months, and I can stay there the whole summer, 
tu: mAnps, and ai kan stei dea da houl s\ma, 
if I want to, so you must decide that part of it your- 
if ai wont tu, sou ju: m\st di'said dcet pa:t av it jo:- 
selves.” 
1 selvz 
“That depends upon how long our holidays are,” said 
“dcet di'pendz a'pon hau by aua holidiz a:/ 3 scd 
Storm. “I have two weeks; how much have you?” he 
sto:m. “ai licev tu: wi:ks; hau niAtf hcev ju:? 33 hi: 
asked the others. Brown also had two weeks, but Wood 
a:skt di a daz. braun o:lsou heed tu: wi:ks, bAt wud 
said, “I don’t know whether I shall have two weeks or 
sed, “ai dount nou hweda ai jal hcev tu: wi:ks o: 
not, for I have not worked a whole year for my new 
not, far ai hav not wa:kt a houl jia fa mai nju: 
firm, you know. It all depends upon the manager of 
fa:m, ju: nou. it o:l di'pendz a'pon da mcenid^ar av 
the firm. I will ask him whether I can have two 
da fa:m. ai wil a:sk him hweda ai kan hcev tu: 
weeks, which I think he will give me when he hears 
wi:ks, hwitf ai piyk hi: wil giv mi: hwen hi: hiaz 
that we are planning to go to England. I will ask the 
dat wi: a: plceniy ta gou tu iygland. ai wil a:sk da 
198 
The Twenty-Third (23rd) Chapter. 
manager to-morrow whether I can have that or not.” 
manid^a ta'marou hwedd ai kan hav dat o: not. 33 
“Good,” said Mr. Miller; “we know that we shall have 
“gud ” sed mistd mile; “wi: non ddt wi: jal hav 
at least twelve days for the trip, and perhaps two weeks. 
at li:st twelv deiz fa da trip, and pa'keeps in: wi:ks. 
little 
less 
least 
Now we must decide on the time for the trip. As you 
nan wi: m\st di'said an da taim fa da trip. az ju: 
know, I have been to England at different times of the 
non, ai hav bi:n tu iygland at difrant taimz av da 
year, so it is not difficult for me to tell you which of the 
jia, sou it iz not difikalt fa mi: ta tel ju: hwitf av da 
different holiday months will be best. June is often 
difrant halidi mAnps wil bi: best. d^u:n iz a:fn 
a lovely month in England, a very beautiful month, 
a IavU mAnp in iygland, a veri bju:taful mAnp, 
lovely = beautiful 
but you can never be sure that the weather will be 
bAt ju: kan neva bi: fua dat da weda wil bi: 
good. July is often a very dry month; it is the month 
gud. d^u'lai iz a:fn a veri drai niAnp; it iz da mAnp 
that has the least rain. I was there for four weeks 
dat hcez da li:st rein. ai waz dea fa fa: wi:ks 
in July once and had only half an hour’s rain, but then 
in d^u'lai WAns and had ounli ha:f an auaz rein, bAt den 
rain 
that was less rain than they had had for years in that 
dat waz les rein dan dei had had fa jiaz in dat 
month. I am sure that July would be the best month. 
mAnp. ai am fua dat d^u'lai wud bi: da best mAnp. 
199 
Chapter Twenty-Three (23). 
He leaves, he left, 
he has left {li:vz, 
left, left]. 
some 
any? 
not any 
We shall see some 
football. 
Is there any foot¬ 
ball this week? 
We shall not see 
any football. 
In August it is too hot to be in London. The school 
in o:gast it iz tit: hot to hi: in lAndan. do sku:l 
holidays are in August, and every one who is able to 
holidiz a: in o:gast, and evri wah hu: iz eibl to 
leave London in August goes away. Many of my 
li:v lAndon in o:gast gouz d'wei. meni av mai 
friends that I should like to see again will have left 
frendz dot ai Jud laik to si: a'gein wil hav left 
London if we go there in that month.” 
Lvndan if wi: gou dea in dcet mAnp” 
Brown: “I should like to see some English football. Do 
braun: “ai fud laik ta si: sam iyglif futbo:l. du: 
you think there will be any football in July?” “No, 
ju: piyk dea wil bi: eni futbo:l in d^u'lai?” “non, 
you will not see any football if we go in July; the 
ju: wil not si: eni futbo:l if wi: gou in d^u'lai; da 
football season does not begin until September. Perhaps 
futbod si:zn dAZ not bigin An'til sap'temba . pa'hceps 
you think it would be better to go in September, then?” 
ju: piyk it wud bi: beta ta gou in sap'temba, den?” 
“What is the weather like in September?” “Oh, some- 
“hwot iz da weda laik in sap'temba?” “ou, SAm- 
times it is very good, but you can't be sure. There is 
taimz it iz veri gud, bAt ju: ka:nt bi: jua . dear iz 
often very much rain in September, and the evenings 
o:fn veri mAtf rein in sap'temba, and di i:vniyz 
are so short.” “Well, then I think that July will be 
a: sou fo:t” “wel, den ai pit/k dat d^u'lai wil bi: 
200 
The Twenty-Third (23rd) Chapter. 
the best month. I don’t want to go in September,” 
da best niAnb. ai dount want ta gou in sap'temba” 
Brown said with a smile, “just to see football. I can 
braun sed wid a smail, “d$Ast ta si: futba:l. ai kan 
see English football when the English football players 
si: itjglif futba:l hwen di iyglif futba:l pleiaz 
come to our country to play.” “Well, have we decided 
kAm tu aua kAntri ta plei” “wel, hav wi: di'saidid 
to go in July, then?” asked Mr. Miller. “Yes,” Wood 
ta gou in d^u'lai, den?” a:skt mist a mila. “jes” wud 
answered, “we can at least decide upon July as the 
a:nsad, “wi: kan at li:st di'said a'pan d^u'lai az da 
best month to go in; then it depends upon whether 
best mAnp ta gou in; den it di'pendz a'pan hweda 
we can all get our holidays in July. But let us leave 
wi: kan a:l get aua halidiz in d^u'lai. bAt let as li:v 
that question now. We can talk about that later; it 
dcet kwestjan nau. wi: kan ta:k a'baut dcet leita; it 
is difficult for our managers to decide now when we 
iz difikalt far aua mcenid^az ta di'said nau hwen wi: 
are to have our holidays this year.” 
a: ta hcev aua halidiz dis jia ” 
“Well, boys,” said Mr. Miller, “before we leave, you 
“wel, baiz,” sed mista mila, “bi'fa: wi: li:v, ju: 
have got at least six months in which to learn the 
hav gat at li:st siks mAnps in hwitj ta la:n da 
different words that you will need on the trip. To-night 
difrant wa:dz dat ju: wil ni:d an da trip. ta'nait 
are to have=shall 
have 
201 
Chapter Twenty-Three (23). 
Let me see gome 
books, please = 
be kind enough to 
let me see some 
books! 
order = ask for 
I will talk to you about what to say when you go 
ai mil to:k td ju: d'baut hwot td sei hwen ju: gou 
into a shop to buy something that you need. What 
intu d fop td bat s Amply ddt ju: ni:d. hwot 
do you say when you want to buy a book, Wood?” 
du: ju: sei hwen ju: wont td bai d buk, mud?” 
Wood: “I think I should say: I want to buy a book; let 
wud: “ai piyk ai fud sei: ai wont td bai d buk; let 
me look at some.” 
mi: luk dt s\m” 
Mr. Miller: “Yes, you could say that. But you could 
mistd mild: “jes, ju: kud sei dcet. bAt ju: kud 
have put in a word which the English use very much, 
hdv put in d wd:d hwitf di iyglif ju:z veri mAtf, 
that is ‘please". Very often, you need only give the 
dcet iz *pli:z 9 . veri o:fn, ju: ni:d ounli giv dd 
name of the thing you want and put the word ‘please" 
neim dv dd piy ju: wont dnd put dd wo:d c pli:z 9 
after it. That is enough. But don’t forget the word 
a:ftdr it. dcet iz i'nAf % bAt dount fd'get dd wd:d 
‘please" when you want to ask for something. Now 
€ pli:z 9 hwen ju: wont tu a:sk fo SAmpiy. nau 
let me hear you buy cinema tickets for us, Brown!” 
let mi: hid ju: bai sinimd tikits fdr as, braun!" 
Brown: “Four tickets for eight o’clock, please!” 
braun: “fo: tikits for eit d'klok, pli:z!” 
“Right! And will you call the waiter and order our 
“rait! dnd wil ju: ko:l dd weitd dnd o:dd aud 
202 
The Twenty-Third (23rd) Chapter. 
dinner, Storm?” Storm: “Waiter! Four vegetable soups, 
dina, sta:m?” sta:m: “weita! fa: vedytabl su:ps, 
please!” 
pli:z!” 
“Yes, that is right. I think you can do that now; it 
“jes, dat iz rait. ai pitjk ja: kan du: dat nau; it 
is not very difficult. We will also talk about how to 
iz not veri difikalt. wi: wil o:lsou to:k a'baut hau ta 
go to London. Part of the trip we shall go by water, 
gou ta l And an. pa:t av da trip wi: jal gou bai wo:ta, 
and part of the trip we shall go by land. When we 
and pa:t av da trip wi: jal gou bai land. hwen wi: 
travel by land, we shall go in a train, and on the part 
travl bai land, wi: jal gou in a trein, and on da pa:t 
of our trip when we travel by water, we shall go in 
av aua trip Jtwen wi: travl bai wa:ta, wi: jal gou in 
a steamer. Did any of you ever travel by train?” 
a sti:ma. did eni av ju: eva travl bai trein ? 33 
“Oh yes, we have all done that,” they answered. 
“ou jes, wi: hav a:l d\n dat / 3 dei a:nsad. 
“But I never travelled much by steamer,” one of them 
“b\t ai neva travld m\tj bai sti:ma , 33 w\n av dam 
said. “I have only made very short trips of about 
sed. “ai hav ounli meid veri fa:t trips av a'baut 
twenty minutes, so it will be the first time that I shall 
twenti minits, sou it wil bi: da fa:st taim dat ai jal 
ever try a long trip by water.” 
eva trai a htj trip bai wo:ta 33 
I travel, I tra¬ 
velled, I have tra¬ 
velled. 
203 
Chapter Twenty-Three (23). 
WORDS: 
EXERCISE A. 
study (verb) 
stay 
start 
pupil 
going to 
decide 
depend 
whether 
firm 
manager 
plan 
plan (verb) 
at least 
different 
lovely 
sure 
less 
least 
rain 
every one 
leave 
left 
Storm’s brother will have to — at home when they — 
on their trip, because he cannot — English; and then 
Storm will be the — to smile. The three young men 
must — how long they are — to stay in England, 
because their teacher can stay the — summer, if he — 
to. Which of the — holiday months is the best to — 
London? July is the best month; it has the — rain, 
and people have not — London yet. If they go in 
August, Mr. Miller cannot be — that he will find — 
of his friends in London. What is the shortest way 
to say that you want to — socks, for example? The 
shortest way is to say, “A pair of socks, —!” In what 
way were the teacher and his three pupils going to — 
to England? They were going to travel part of the 
trip by — and part by —. Had the young men — 
travelled by steamer before? Yes, but one of them 
had — been on a trip of more than twenty minutes. 
any 
player 
play 
difficult 
land 
travel 
train 
ever 
need 
upon 
the... the 
order 
about 
EXERCISE B. 
What does Storm’s brother do when Storm speaks about 
the trip? ... Why do the young men’s families think that 
they will not be able to learn enough English before 
they start on the trip? ... Which will be the one to 
smile when they start on their trip, Storm or his 
brother? ... In which month did they decide to make 
the trip? ... Did Wood know whether he would get two 
weeks’ holidays? ... Has Wood worked for the manager 
of his firm for a whole year yet? ... Can they be sure 
204 
The Twenty-Third (23rd) Chapter. 
that the weather will be good in July? ... In which 
month do most people leave London for their holidays? 
... Is there any football in England in July? ... Could 
the young men’s managers decide at once when they 
could have their holidays? ... 
EXERCISE C. 
How to ask and answer questions with <how’. 
How do we go in and out of houses? Answer ... 
Question ...? John sometimes goes through the window. 
How do we get from the ground floor to the second 
floor? Answer ... Question ...? The children walk 
to school. How did Mrs. Smith get her friend Daisy’s 
letter? Answer ... Question ...? The children bought 
the chocolate at the chocolate-shop. How are the three 
young men and their teacher going to get to England? 
Answer ... Question...? By land they are going to 
travel in a train. How did Storm know that Mr. Miller’s 
son was awake? Answer... Question...? He knew 
that the best time to go was July, because he had 
visited England at different times of the year. How did 
Mr. Smith take the baby to the lake? Answer . . . 
Question . . .? Mr. Smith took the children to the 
restaurant in a taxi. 
205 
