Chapter Twenty-Four (24). 
The Twenty-Fourth (24th) Chapter. 
GETTING MONEY FOR THE TRIP 
“Well, have you made any plans for our trip?” Mr. 
“wel, hav ju: meid eni plcenz far aua trip?” mistd 
Miller asked the boys on their next English evening. 
mild a:skt da baiz on dea nekst iyglif i:vhiy. 
“Oh yes, we have made many, and we have something 
“ou jes, wi: hav meid meni, and wi: hcev sAmply 
good to tell you; Wood’s manager will let him have 
gud ta tel ju:; wudz mcenid^a wil let him hcev 
two weeks’ holidays this summer. We have been 
.tu: wi:ks halidiz dis SAina. wi: hav bi:n 
thinking of how much the trip will cost, and we have 
piykiy av hau mAtf da trip wil kast, and wi: hav 
also asked about the tickets. We know how much it 
a:lsou a:skt a'baut da tikits. wi: nou hau mAtf it 
will cost us to go to England and back, but we do not 
wil kast as ta gou tu iygland and bcek, bAt wi: du: nat 
know how much it will cost to stay for two weeks in 
nou hau mAtf it wil kast ta stei fa tu: wi:ks in 
England. Could you tell us about that, Mr. Miller?” 
iy gland. kud ju: tel as a'baut dcet, mista mila?” 
“Yes, two weeks in London at a hotel that is both good 
“jes, tu: wi:ks in lAndan at a hou'tel dat iz boup gud 
and cheap will cost about fifteen pounds for each. Have 
and tfi:p wil kast a'baut fifti:n paundz far i:tf. hav 
206 
The Twenty-Fourth (24th) Chapter. 
you got so much money?” 
ju: got sou MAtf mAni?” 
Wood: “Fifteen pounds! That is much. I haven’t got 
wud: “fifti:n pounds! dcet is MAtf. ai hcevnt got 
so much money.” Brown: “I think we shall all have 
sou MAtf MAni .” braun: “ai piyk wi: fdl o:l hcev 
to try to earn some extra money, for we have very 
to trai tu din sam ekstra MAni, fd wi: hcev veri 
little, I am afraid.” 
litl, ai dm a'freid” 
Storm: “When I spoke to the manager at the office 
stoim: “hwen ai spouk ta da mcenid^a at di of is 
about our trip to London, he was very interested. He 
a'baut aua trip ta lAndan, hi: was veri intristid. hi: 
said that the firm would be glad to have a young man 
sed dat da fa:m wud bi: glced ta hcev a jAy mcen 
in the office who knew something about the English 
in di of is hu: nju: SAinpiy a'baut di itjglif 
and England. He said that such a man would always 
and iygland. hi: sed dat SAtf a mcen wud o:lwas 
be of great use to a big firm, and he gave me to under- 
bi: av greit ju:s tu a big fa:m, and hi: geiv mi: tu Anda- 
stand that the firm would give me some of the money 
'stcend dat da fa:m wud giv mi: sam av da mAni 
for the trip. So I do not think that I shall need to 
fa da trip. sou ai du: not pitjk dat ai fal ni:d tu 
earn extra money for the trip.” 
o:n ekstra mAni fa da trip.” 
haven’t = have 
not 
office 
207 
Chapter Twenty-Four (24). 
The idea is used 
by the manager = 
the manager uses 
the idea. 
!MI 
library 
next to nothing = 
almost nothing 
Brown: “It must be a fine thing to work for a firm like 
braun: “it mAst bi: a fain piy td Wd:k far a fa:m laik 
that. But I will tell you something about the book-shop 
dcet. bAt ax wil tel ju: s Am piy a'baut da bukjap 
where I work. If one of us gets a good idea for the 
hwear ai wa:k. if wah av as gets a gud ai'dia fa da 
shop, and it is used by the manager, we are paid well 
fap, and it iz ju:zd bai da mcenid^a, wi: a: peid wel 
for it. And I have an idea! It is just the right time 
far it. and ai hcev an ai'dia! it iz d^Ast da rait taim 
now to speak to him about it. I will tell you all about 
nau ta spi:k ta him a'baut it. ai wil tel ju: o:l a'baut 
it; then you can tell me what you think of it. Perhaps 
it; den ju: kan tel mi: hwat ju: piyk av it. pa'hceps 
you know that some book-shops have a library. There 
ju: nou dat SAm bukjaps hcev a laibrari. dear 
are many people who would like to read, but they 
a: meni pi:pl hu: wud laik ta ri:d, bAt dei 
cannot afford to buy many books, because the prices 
kcenat a'fa:d ta bai meni buks, bi'kaz da praisiz 
are so high. But at a library, they can borrow books 
a: sou hai. bAt at a laibrari, dei kan barou buks 
for next to nothing, and after they have read the books, 
fa nekst ta nApiy, and a:fta dei hav red da buks, 
they bring them back again. At the back of the shop 
dei briy dam bcek a'gein. at da bcek av da fap 
we have a small extra room, which could be made into 
wi: hcev a sma:l ekstra ru:m, hwitf kud bi: meid intu 
208 
The Twenty-Fourth (24th) Chapter. 
a library where people could read for a short time to 
a laibrari hwea pi:pi kud ri:d far a fo:t taim ta 
see what books they want to borrow. In this way, 
si: hwot buks dei want ta boron. in dis wei, 
many people who cannot afford to buy the books they 
meni pi:pl hu: kcenot a'fo:d ta bai da buks dei 
would like to read, can get all the books they want 
wud laik ta ri:d, kan get o:l da buks dei wont 
without paying very much, but we should get some 
wid'aut peiig veri mAtj, b\t wi: jud get saw, 
money out of it. Besides, when people come in to 
. niAni aut av it. bi'saidz, hwen pi:pl hm in ta 
borrow books, they would also see all the other things 
borou buks, dei wud o:lsou si: o:l di Ada pig2 
we have in the shop, so that perhaps we could sell 
wi: hrev in da fop, sou dat pa'hceps wi: kud sel 
them some of these things, too. There are four other 
dam *SAin av di:z pigz, tu:. dear a: fo:r Ada 
book-shops in our street; but this idea has not been 
bukfops in aua stri'.t; bAt dts N ai'dia haz not bi:n 
tried by any of them. And it would be a good thing 
traid bai eni ov dam. and it wud bi: a gud pig 
for us to be the first shop to take it up.” 
far as ta bi: da fa:st fop ta teik it Ap.” 
Mr. Miller: “That is a very good idea! I am sure that 
mist a mila: “dcet iz a veri gud ai'dia! ai am fua dat 
it will be a good thing for your shop. And you would 
it wil bi: a gud pig fa jo: fop. and ju: wud 
street 
The idea has not 
been tried by 
them = they have 
not tried the idea. 
209 
Chapter Twenty-Four (24). 
He sells, he sold, sell more books, too, because people would learn to 
^ouM^souWL se l mo: buks, tu:, bi'kaz pi:pl wud la:n ta 
read good books, and that would bring more people to 
ri:d gud buks, and dcet wud briy ma: pi: pi ta 
the shop to buy them.” 
da Jap ta bai dam ” 
Brown: “Yes, and I would write letters to the people 
braun: “jes, f and ai wud rait let as ta da pi: pi 
who live in our part of the town to tell them about 
hu: liv in aua pa:t av da taun ta tel dam a'baut 
new books and to invite them to read books in this 
nju: buks and tu in'vait dam ta ri:d buks in dis 
cheap way. I will take this idea to the manager 
tfi:p wei. ai wil teik dis ai'dia ta da mcenid^a 
to-morrow. I am sure he will use the idea, and then 
ta'marou. ai am fua hi: wil ju:z di ai'dia, and den 
I shall be able to afford the trip, because he always 
ai fal bi: eibl tu a'fa:d da trip, bi'kaz hi: 5:lwaz 
pays well. My manager is a man of modern ideas; 
peiz wel. mai mcenid^ar iz a mcen av mad an ai'diaz; 
he is always looking for something hew, and he is not 
hi: iz a:lwaz lukiy fa SAmpiy nju:, and hi: iz nat 
afraid to try something very modern if he thinks it 
a'freid ta trai SAmpiy veri madan if hi: piyks it 
will bring more business to the shop. I think that he 
wil briy ma: biznis ta da fap . ai piyk dat hi: 
is a very clever business man, the cleverest I know. 
iz a veri kleva biznis mcen, da klevarist ai nou. 
210 
The Twenty-Fourth (24th) Chapter. 
He always knows the right thing to do to sell more. 
hi: o:lwaz nous da rait piy ta du: ta sel mo:. 
The managers of the other shops in our street are not 
da mcenid^az av di Ada fops in aua stri.t a: not 
half so clever as he is, and when their shops are almost 
ha:f sou kleva az hi: iz, and hwen dea fops a: o:lmoust 
empty, our shop is almost full of customers, and we are 
emti, aua fop iz o:lmoust ful av k\stamaz, and wi: a: 
always busy all day. Sometimes we are so busy that 
o:lwaz bizi o:l dei. SAmtaimz wi: a: sou bizi dat 
we cannot find time to have our lunch, because there 
wi: kcenot faind taim ta hcev aua lAnf, bi'koz dear 
are customers coming in all the time so that our shop 
a: kAstarnaz kAiniy in o:l da taim sou dat aua fop 
is never empty. I hope I shall be just as clever a 
iz nevar emti. ai houp ai fal bi: d^Ast az klevar a 
business man when I get older, but I am afraid there 
biznis mcen hwen ai get oulda, bAt ai am a'freid dear 
are many things for me to learn first.” 
a: meni piyz fa mi: ta la:n fa:st” 
Mr. Miller: “It is a good thing to work for such $ clever 
mist a mil a: “it iz a gud piy ta wa:k fa SAtf a kleva 
business man, for you can learn much from him and 
biznis mcen, fa ju: kan la:n niAtf fram him and 
get cleverer yourself. Well, how about you, Wood? 
get klevar a jo: x self. wel, hau a'baut ju:, wud? 
You have been so quiet all the evening. What is 
ju: hav bi:n sou kwaiat o:l di i:vniy. hwot iz 
customers = 
people who want 
to buy something 
in a shop 
211 
Chapter Twenty-Four (24). 
wrong?” Wood: “I have been thinking that perhaps 
ray?” wud: “ai hav bi:n pirjkiy ddt pa'keeps 
I shall have to stay at home. There is no way for me 
ai fdl hcev ta stei at houm. dear is nou wei fa mi: 
to earn extra money at our office, and, besides, there 
tu a:n ekstra mxni at auar of is, and, bi'saidz, dear 
is so much work to do there, that it would be diffi- 
iz sou MAtf wa:k ta du: dea, dat it wud bi: difi- 
cult for me to take any other work in the evenings. 
kalt fa mi: ta teik eni Ada wa:k in di i.vniyz. 
I don’t know how to get the money. I don’t like to 
ai dount nou hau ta get da mAni. ai dount laik ta 
borrow it, because my salary is not very high, and it 
borou it, bi'kaz mai scelari iz not veri hai, and it 
would be difficult for me when the money had to be 
wud bi: difikalt fa mi: hwen da mAni herd ta bi: 
paid back. I think my salary is too low for all the 
peid bcek. ai piyk mai scelari iz tu: lou far o:l da 
work I do.” 
wa:k ai du :/ 3 
Brown: “Why don’t you ask your manager for a rise 
braun: “hwai dount ju: a:sk jo: mcenid^a far a raiz 
of salary, then?” “Oh, I couldn’t do that. I haven’t 
av scelari, denf 33 “ou, ai kudnt du: deet. ai licevnt 
been there for a year yet, and, besides, I have just 
bi:n dea far a jia jet, and, bi'saidz, ai hav d$Ast 
asked him for longer holidays.” Brown: “You can at 
a:skt him fa loyga holidiz . 33 braun: “ju: keen at 
212 
The Twenty-Fourth (24th) Chapter. 
least try. If you cannot earn the money you need in 
li:st trai. if ju: kcenot a:n da mAni ju: ni:d in 
some other way, you must try. Go to him to-morrow 
sAm a da zvei, ju: mAst trai. gou ta him ta'morou 
and ask for a rise; tell him how much work you do, and 
and a:sk far a raiz; tel him hau niAtf wa:k ju: du:, and 
what you are going to spend the money on.” Wood: 
hwot ju: a: gouiy ta spend da mAni on” wud: 
“Well, I don’t like to ask for a rise, but I will try. If 
“wel, ai dount laik tu a:sk far a raiz, bAt ai wil trai. if 
I can’t earn a higher salary, I don’t see where I shall 
ai ka:nt a:n a haia scelari, ai dount si: hwear ai fal 
get the money from. I am not full of ideas like Brown; 
get da mAni from, ai am not ful av ai'diaz laik braun; 
my head is empty.” 
mai hed iz emti.” 
Mr. Miller: “Don’t let us talk any more of it to-night. 
mist a mila: “dount let as to:k eni mo:r av it ta'nait. 
It is getting late now, I am afraid, and, besides, my wife 
it iz getiy leit nau, ai am a'freid, and, bi'saidz, mai waif 
is already waiting with the coffee. Next time we shall 
iz o:Vredi weitiy zmd da kofi. nekst taim zvi: fal 
know whether you will be able to afford to go or not, 
nou hweda ju: wil bi: eibl tu a'fo:d ta gou o: not, 
and then we will speak more about our plans.” 
and den wi: wil spi:k mo:r a l baut aua plcenz.” 
Mrs. Miller: “Please come and have coffee. A cup of 
misiz mila: “pli:z kAm and hcev kofi. a kAp av 
to spend money = 
to pay out money 
213 
Chapter Twenty-Four (24). 
hot coffee will do you good, now that you have to go 
hot kofi wil du: ju: gud, nau Set ju: hcev td gou 
out into the cold night.” “Yes, thank you very much,” 
aut intd da kould nait” “jes, pcetjk ju: veri mAtj,” 
the young men answered. 
da j\fj men a:nsad. 
Brown: “Hot coffee is a very good thing on a cold 
braun: “hot kofi iz a veri gud piy on a kould 
night, and we should all like very much to speak English 
nait, and mi: Jud o:l laik veri m\tj ta spi:k iyglif 
with you for a few minutes, Mrs. Miller. We know from 
mid ju: far a fju: minits, misiz mil a. wi: non fram 
your husband that you speak English well, and that 
jo: hAzband dat ju: spi:k iyglif wel, and dat 
you like that language as much as we do.” Mrs. Miller: 
ju: laik dcet Iceygwid 3 az mAtj az wi: du:” misiz mila: 
“Yes, my husband and I like English so well that we 
“jes, mai hAzband and ai laik iyglif sou wel dat wi: 
often use it when we are alone together.” 
o:fn ju:z it hwen wi: a: a'loun ta x geda” 
WORDS: 
earn 
extra 
office 
use 
library 
EXERCISE A. 
The three friends would try to — some extra money. 
Many people like to read, but they cannot — to buy 
all the books which they want to —. So they borrow 
the books in a —, where they can get them for- 
nothing. There were five book-shops in the — where 
214 
The Twenty-Fourth (24th) Chapter. 
Brown’s — had his shop, and Brown thought that he 
was the — business man he knew. Mr. Miller thought 
that Brown’s new idea would bring more — to the 
shop. Did they have many — in the shop? Yes, 
sometimes the shop was so — of customers that they 
had no time to have their —. Did Wood have a high 
—? No, but he would try to ask for a — of salary 
the next day. Why was he not glad to ask for a —? 
Because he had just asked the manager for longer —. 
EXERCISE B. 
What did Mr. Miller ask the young men on the next 
English evening? ... How much would it cost for each 
to stay two weeks in London? ... How would they get 
the money? ... Was Storm’s manager interested in his 
trip to England? ... Why would Storm not need to earn 
extra money for the trip? ... What would Brown do 
to earn some extra money? ... Where could Brown’s 
manager have his library? ... What would Brown do 
to let people know about the library? ... Why would 
it be difficult for Wood to take any other work in the 
evenings? ... Did he think that his salary was high 
enough? ... What did Brown tell him to do to get more 
money? ... 
EXERCISE C. 
How to ask and answer questions with ‘when’. 
When is summer? Answer ... Question ...? Winter 
afford 
borrow 
sell 
sold 
street 
afraid 
business 
clever 
business man 
empty 
full 
customer 
busy 
get 
salary 
besides 
rise 
by 
215 
Chapter Twenty-Four (24). 
is in the months of December, January, and February. 
When are John and Helen at school? Answer ... 
Question ...? Mr. Smith is at his office from nine till 
five. When will John be fourteen years old? Answer 
... Question ...? Helen will be thirteen years old in 
three years. When do the Smith family have their 
summer-holidays? Answer ... Question ...? In Lon¬ 
don the school holidays are in August. When did the 
three young men begin their study of English? Answer 
... Question ...? John began to go to school seven 
years ago. When did Mr. Smith take his children to 
the cinema? Answer ... Question ...? Mr. Smith took 
his children out for a walk to the lake when the weather 
was fine. When are you going to England? Answer ... 
Question ...? I am going to town to-morrow. When 
did Mrs. Smith come home from the birthday party? 
Answer ... Question ...? George came home very late 
from the lake. 
216 
