Chapter Twenty-Five (25). 
The Twenty-Fifth (25th) Chapter. 
GOOD NEWS 
“You look very happy to-night, boys,” said Mr. Miller 
“ju: luk veri hcepi ta'nait, boiz” sed mista mild 
a few evenings later when they were together again; 
d fju: i:vnifjz leitd hwen dei wa: ta'gedar a'gein; 
“you must have something good to tell me.” “Yes, 
“ju: mAst hcev sAmply gud to tel mi:” “jes, 
I, at least, have good news,” Storm answered; “my 
ai, at li:st, hcev gud nju:z” sta:m a:nsdd; “mai 
manager said yesterday that he would pay the whole 
mcemd^a sed jestadi dat hi: wud pei da houl 
trip for me. Isn’t that good news? I had hoped that he 
trip fa: mi:, iznt dcet gud nju.zf ai had houpt dat hi: 
would pay part of it; but it is very kind of him to 
wud pei pa:t av it; bAt it iz veri kaind ev him ta 
pay all of it, I think.” 
pei o:l av it, ai piyk.” 
“And I have good news, too,” said Brown. “My manager 
“and ai hcev gud nju:z, tu:” sed braun. “mai nuenid^a 
thought that my idea about the library was very good. 
pa:t dat mai ai'dia a'baut da laibrari waz veri gud. 
I am going to begin to work at it at once. I am going 
ai am gouiy ta bi'gin ta wa:k cet it at WAtis. ai am gouiy 
to write all the letters myself and make all the plans, 
ta rait a:l da letaz mai 1 self and meik a:l da plcenz. 
7/1 
He shows, he 
showed, he has 
shown [jou2, 
jotul, foun]. 
I think of going 
= I think to go 
too, so it is a good chance for me to show what I can do. 
tu:, sou it is a gud tfa:ns f 9 mi: td fou hwot ai kan du:. 
It is the first time I have had such a chance, and it is 
it is da fa:st taim ai hav heed SAtj a tfa:ns, and it is 
a very good chance for a young man like myself; so 
a veri gud tfa:ns far a f\rj mcen Iciik mat self; sou 
you will understand that I am happy. I showed him 
ju: wil Anda'steend dat ai am heepi. ai foud him 
some of the letters I had written, and he said they 
SAin av da letas ai had ritn, and hi: sed dei 
were very good. And now I come to the best part of 
wa: veri gud. and nau ai kAm ta da best pa:t av 
my news. The manager is so sure that the idea is good 
mai nju:s. da meenid^ar is sou fua dat di atdia is gud 
that he is going to give me a month’s extra pay. Is that 
dat hi: is gouiy ta giv mi: a mAnps ekstra pei. is deet 
good news or not, I ask you? 55 
gud nju:s o: not, ai a:sk ju:?” 
Mr. Miller: “Yes, that is very good news. And even 
mist a mile: “jes, deet is veri gud nju:s. and i:van 
Wood looks happy to-night.” 
wud luks heepi ta'nait” 
Wood: “Yes, I have some good news, too. You know 
wud: “jes, ai heev saw gud nju:s, tu:. ju: nou 
I didn’t like to ask for a rise, and yesterday I was 
ai didnt laik tu a:sk far a rais, and jestadi ai was 
thinking all day of going to my manager, but I hadn’t 
pigkig o:I dei av gouir/ ta mai meenid^a, bAt ai heednt 
The Twenty-Fifth (25th) Chapter. 
the courage; I was afraid of asking him. Once I tried 
da k at id 3; ai waz a'freid av a:skiy him. wahs ai traid 
to take courage and had even got as far as the door, 
ta teik kArid$ and had i:van gat az fa:r az da do:, 
when the manager called one of the young ladies into 
hwen da mcenid^a ko:ld wah av da jAy leidiz inta 
his office, and I had to wait again. But later in the 
hiz of is, and ai heed ta weit a'gein. bAt leitar in da 
day he called me in, as there was something he wanted 
dei hi: ko:ld mi: in, az dea waz SAmpirj hi: wontid 
to speak to me about. He had been watching my work 
ta spi:k ta mi: a'baut. hi: had bi:n wotfiy mai wa:k 
for some time, he said, to see how I did it. He had 
fa SAm taim, hi: sed, ta si: hau ai did it. hi: had 
been watching that of some of the others, too, and 
bi:n wotfiy deet av SAm av di Adaz, tu:, and 
although I was a new man there, he thought that I 
0: I'd on ai waz a nju: mcen dea, hi: po:t dat ai 
did my work best. I am going to work for him as his 
did mai wa:k best. ai am gouiy ta wa:k fa him az hiz 
secretary, because, he said, he was getting older now, 
sekratri, bi'koz, hi: sed, hi: waz getiy oulda nau, 
and he needed a young man to remember all the things 
and hi: ni:did a jAy mcen ta rtmemba o:l da piyz 
that he forgot himself. ‘I need a man,* he said, ‘with 
dat hi: fa'got him'self. *ai ni:d a mcen, 9 hi: sed, ( wid 
a good head, who can look after all the small things in 
a gud hed, hu: kan Ink a:ftar o:l da smo:l piyz in 
afraid of asking = 
afraid to ask 
to watch = to 
look at 
that of some of 
the others = the 
work of some of 
the others 
He becomes, he 
became, he has 
become [b?k\ms, 
bi'heim, bi'ksm]. 
a rich man = a 
man with much 
money 
the office, so that there will be no need for me to 
di of is, sou ddt dee wil hi: non ni:d fa mi: ta 
think of them, a man who can write my letters, and 
piyk av dam, a mcen Jin: ken rait mai letez, and 
who is not afraid of a little extra work now and then. 
hu: iz not a'freid av a litl ckstra wa:k nau and den. 
And you are not afraid of that, I know. How would 
and ju: a: not a'freid av dat, ai non. hau zvud 
you like to become my secretary V ‘I should like 
ju: laik ta bi'kAin mai sekratri? 9 ‘ai fud laik 
nothing better, 5 I answered. ‘Well, I shall be glad to 
nxpiy beta/ ai a:nsad. ‘wel, ai fal hi: glced ta 
tell you, that now you have become my secretary you 
tel ju:, dat nan ju: Jiav bi'kAin mai sekratri ju: 
will become a rich man, too, 5 he said, smiling. ‘From 
wil bi'kxm a ritf man, tn:, 9 hi: sed, smailiy. ‘from 
the first of next month you will get a rise. You will 
da fa:st av nekst mxnp ju: wil get a raiz. ju: zoil 
need the money for your trip, I think. 5 I thanked him, 
ni:d da mAni fa ja: trip, ai piyk. 9 ai pceykt him, 
but I did not tell him that I had been trying all the 
bAt ai did net tel him dat ai had bi:n traiiy a:l da 
morning to work up courage enough to ask for a 
ma.niy ta wa:k Ap kxrid 3 i'nxf tu a:sk far a 
rise.” 
raiz/' 
The Twenty-Fifth (25th) Chapter. 
Mr. Miller: “I could see that you all had good news, 
mista mil a: “ai kud si: dat ju: o:l heed gud nju:z, 
although I didn’t think it would be as good as this. 
o:Vdou ai didnt piyk it wud hi: dz gud dz dis. 
Now, when can you have your holidays?” 
nan, Jnven kan ju: hcev jo: holidiz?” 
Storm: “I can have mine when I want them. Shall 
sto:m: “ai kan hcev main hwen ai wont dam . fal 
we try to make the trip during the first fortnight of 
wn: trai ta meik da trip djuariy da fa:st fo:tnait ev 
July? How does that time suit you?” 
dyi'lait hau d\z deet taim sju:t ju:?” 
Mr. Miller: “It suits me well enough, but the question 
mist a mil a: “it sju:ts mi: wcl i'nAf, b\t da kwestfan 
is not so much how it suits me, as how it suits Brown 
iz not sou m\tj hau it sju:ts mi:, az hau it sjicts bra it n 
and Wood, because my holidays are longer than theirs. 
and wud, bi y koz mai holidiz a: loyga dan deaz. 
When do you think you can have yours, Wood?” “That 
hwen du: ju: piyk ju: kan hcev jo:z, wud?” “dcct 
time suits me very well. July is a quiet month at 
taim sju:ts mi: veri wcl. d^u'lai iz a kzvaiat m.\np at 
our office. Most of the people with whom we do 
auar of is. moust av da pi: pi wid 1iu:m wi: du: 
business are away on their holidays, so we also have 
biznis a:r a'wei on dea holidiz, sou wi: o:lsou hcev 
ours in July. How about yours, Brown?” “I am 
auaz in d^u'lai. hau a'baut jo:z, braun?” “ai am 
7 2 
a fortnight = two 
weeks 
mine 
yours 
his 
hers 
ours 
yours 
theirs 
It is my book = 
the book is mine. 
It is your book = 
the book is yours. 
It is his book = 
the book is his. 
It is her book = 
the book is hers. 
It is our book = 
the book is ours. 
It is your book = 
the book is yours. 
It is their book = 
the book is theirs. 
easy = not diffi¬ 
cult 
who 
whom 
whose 
The men who do 
business are busi¬ 
ness men. 
The man whom 
you saw at my 
office is a busi¬ 
ness man. 
The men with 
whom we do busi¬ 
ness are also busi¬ 
ness men. 
The business man 
whose shop I work 
in is very clever. 
won’t = will not 
afraid it is not going to be easy for me to have mine 
a'freid it iz nat gouitj td In: i:zi fa mi: ta hcev main 
in July, because I had half of July last year. But I 
in dyi'lai, bi'kaz ai heed ha:f av d^u'lai la:st jia. b\t ai 
will try to speak to some of the others at the shop 
u’il trai ta spi:k ta s\m av di \daz at da fap 
to-morrow. There are two whom I will ask to exchange 
ta'marou. dear a: tn: hu:m ai wil a:sk tu iks'tfeind 3 
holidays with me. There is a young man whose 
holidiz wid mi:. dear iz a j\y mcen hu:z 
holidays are in July this year. I will ask him to 
halidiz a:r in dgu'lai dis jia. ai wil a:sk him tu 
exchange holidays with me, so that he can have mine, 
iks'tfeind 3 halidiz zvid mi:, sou dat hi: kan hcev main, 
and I can have his. If his holidays are during the last 
and ai kan hcev hiz. if hiz halidiz a: djuariy da la:st 
fortnight of July, I can ask one of the young ladies, 
fa:tnait av d^u'lai, ai kan a:sk w\n av da j\y leidiz, 
whose holidays are during the first part of the month, 
hu:z halidiz a: djuariy da fa:st pa:t av da m\np, 
to exchange hers for mine. We often exchange our 
tu iks'tfeind 3 ha:z fa main. wi: a:fn iks'tfeind 3 aua 
holidays at the shop, when it suits us better that way, 
halidiz at da fap, hwen it sju:ts as beta deed wei, 
so I hope it won't be too difficult.” Mr. Miller: “Well, 
sou ai houp it wount bi: tu: difikelt” mista mile: “wel, 
that is decided, then.” 
deet iz di'soidid, den ” 
The Twenty-Fifth (25th) Chapter. 
Some days later, B^own was able to bring the good 
saiii deiz leitd, braun Wdz eibl td briy dd gitd 
news that the young lady whose holidays were during 
nju:z ddt dd j'ajj leidi hu:z holidis zvd: djudriy 
the first fortnight of July, was willing to exchange 
dd fd:st fd.tnait dv d^u'lai, wdz wiliy tu iks'tjeind 3 
holidays with him, although his were a whole month 
hdlidiz wid him, o:Vdou hiz wd:r d houl niAnp 
later. It had even been very easy to get her to do so, 
leitd. it hdd i:vdti bi:n veri i:zi td get hd: td du: sou, 
because the time suited her plans much better. 
bi'koz dd taini sju:tid hd: plccnz niAtf betd. 
Now that they knew they would have enough money, 
nan ddt dei nju: dei wud heev i'nAf niAni, 
and that they would be able to take their holidays at 
dud ddt dei wud bi: eibl td teik dtd lulidiz dt 
one and the same time, the young men became still 
iv ah dnd dd seiin taint, dd jAy men bi'keim stil 
more interested in their studies. Every time they had 
nu: r intristid in ded stAdiz. evri taini dei herd 
a chance of being together during the next month, they 
d tfa:ns dv bi:iy td'gedd djudriy dd nekst niAnp, dei 
talked about their coming trip. Mr. Miller told them 
tj:kt d'baut dsd kAiniy trip. mistd mild tould ddm 
about the things he had seen in England, and they 
d'baut dd piyz hi: hdd si:n in iyghnd, dnd dei 
read about England in books and newspapers. Some- 
red d'baut iyghnd in buks dnd njic.speipdz. sAm¬ 
is willing to = is 
glad to 
a chance of being 
together = 
a chance to be to¬ 
gether 
newspaper 
times they even bought the English newspaper ‘The 
taims dei i:van ba:t di iyglif nju:speipa € da 
Times’ and tried to read it; but that was not easy for 
taims ’ and traid ta ri:d it; b\t dat was not i:zi fa: 
them; although they could understand something, most 
dam; a:l'dou dei kud And a'stand SAmpiy, moust 
of it was too difficult, and Mr. Miller often had to 
dv it was tu: difikdlt, and mists mild a:fn had tu 
explain it to them in words that they knew. 
iks'plein it td dam in wa:ds dat dei nju:. 
paper = news¬ 
paper 
Brown often bought the extra paper about books and 
braun o:fn bo:t di ckstra pcipar a'baut buks and 
the men who write them, which ‘The Times’ brings 
da men hu: rciit dam, hwitf ‘da taims 9 britjz 
out every week. He could understand enough of the 
aut evri wi:k. hi: kud Anda'stand i'nAf av da 
language to be able to get many ideas for his library, 
laygwid 3 ta bi: eibl ta get meni atdiaz fa his laibrari , 
so that his manager began to think that he must be 
sou dat hiz rnanid^a bi'gan ta pitjk dat hi: niASt bi: 
a very clever man who had studied much about modern 
a veri klcva man hu: had stAdid m\tf a'baut madan 
books. 
buks. 
Brown also tried to get Storm and Wood interested in 
braun j.lsou traid ta get sto:in and zvud intristid in 
this extra paper, but Wood was too busy with his new 
dis ckstra peipa, bAt wud zvaz tu: bizi zvid hiz nju: 
The Twenty-Fifth (25th) Chapter. 
work, and Storm was too much of a business man to be 
wa:k, dnd sta:m waz tu: mAtf dv 3 biznis man td bi: 
interested in “all these dry old books”, as he called 
intristid in “o:l di:z drai ould buks”, dz hi: ko:ld 
them. They never used a word of any language but 
dam. dei ncvd jn:zd 3 wa:d 3v cm laggwid 3 bAt 
English when they were together. This was a very 
iyglif hwen dei W3: ta'geda. dis ivaz 3 vcri 
good thing, and when the month of July came at 
gud pig, 3nd hwen da mAttp 3v dyi'lai keim 3t 
last, the young men had become very good at English 
la:st, d3 jAtj men Ji3d bi y k\m veri gud at iyglij 
and were able to say almost everything. 
and wa:r eibl ta sei o.lmoust evripiy. 
EXERCISE A. 
first fortnight of July? Yes, there was a young lady, 
WORDS: 
news 
chance 
show 
showed 
shown 
even 
courage 
watch (verb) 
although 
secretary 
become 
became 
fortnight 
suit (verb) 
whom 
whose 
during 
so 
newspaper 
mine 
yours 
hers 
ours 
theirs 
need 
easy 
willing 
a few 
rich 
exchange 
EXERCISE B. 
Wood’s manager know that Wood was the best man 
to have his holidays, and when was Brown going to 
fortnight of July, the young man’s or the young lady’s? 
EXERCISE C. 
How to ask and answer questions with ‘why’. 
weather will be good in June. Why are the young 
Miller and the child are going to a farm in the country, 
because the child is too young to go for a trip to Eng¬ 
John’s mother was afraid to let him go out on the ice, 
because it was too thin. Why did Daisy have a party? 
had dinner in town, because they had not been invited 
to the party. Why had the young men begun to study 
watched his work to see how he did it. Why will 
The Twenty-Fifth (25th) Chapter. 
that they can speak English well enough when they 
go to England. Why would they like to visit the Bri¬ 
in July, because if he goes in August, most of his friends 
will have left London. Why would Mr. Smith’s brother 
not go with Mr. Smith and the children to the lake? 
a watch yet, because he is too young. 
