Chapter Twenty-Six (26). 
The Twenty-Sixth (26th) Chapter. 
THE TRIP BEGINS 
at length = at last | At length the day has come when the teacher and his 
at leyp da dei haz k\m hwen da ti:tfar and hiz 
three pupils start on their trip to England. The time 
pri: pju:plz sta:t an dea trip tu iygland. da taint 
has gone too slowly for them, but at length the day 
haz gan tu: slouli fa: dam, b\t at leyp da dei 
has come. Brown has been packing his luggage all 
haz k\m. braun haz bi:n pcekiy hiz h\gid^ a:l 
finish = come to 
the end of 
station 
along with = 
together with 
the morning, but now his mother comes into his room, 
da ma:niy, bAt nau hiz m\da k\mz inta hiz ru:m, 
saying, “You must finish packing your luggage at once. 
seiiy, “ju: mxst finif pcekiy ja: lAgid$ at w\ns. 
You will have to be at the railway station in half an 
ju: wil hcev ta bi: at da reilzvei steifan in ha:f an 
hour.” 
aua” 
Brown: “I am ready to go, but I think I shall have to 
braun: “ai am redi ta gou, b\t ai piyk ai jal hcev ta 
take a taxi to the station, or I shall be late for my train.” 
*eik a iceksi ta da steifan, a:r ai jal bi: leit fa mai trein. 3y 
“Shall I come along with you to the station, or would 
(< fal ai k\m a'lay wid ju: ta da steifan, a: wud 
you rather go alone?” Brown: “I would rather have 
ju: ra:da gou a'loun?” braun: “ai wud ra:da hcev 
228 
The Twenty-Sixth (26th) Chapter. 
you along with me. But we must ask the driver to 
ju: a'lay wid mi:. b\t wi: m\st a:sk da draiva ta 
go fast. We have only twenty-five minutes now, and 
gou fa:st. mi: hcev ounli twenti'faiv minits nau, and 
if he drives too slowly, I shall be late for my train.” 
if hi: draivz tu: slouli, ai fal hi: leit fa mm t rein . 33 
Five minutes later they were on their way to the 
foiv minits leita dei wa:r an dea wei ta da 
railway station in a taxi. Brown was nervous. “It is 
reihvei steifan in a tceksi. braun waz na:vas. “it iz 
too slow, driver, can’t you drive a little faster?” he said 
tu: si on , draiva, ka:nt ju: draw a litl fa:staf }> hi: sed 
nervously. “All right, I will try,” the driver answered. 
na.vasli. “a:I rait, ai wil trai,” da draivar a:nsad. 
When they arrived at the station, the three others were 
hwen dei a'raivd at da steifan, da pri: xdaz wa:r 
already there, waiting. “Oh, there you are, Brown, 
a:Predi dea, zveitiy. “on, dea ju: a:, braun, 
we were a little nervous; we were afraid that you would 
wi: zva:r a litl na:vas: wi: wa:r a'freid dat ju: wud 
be late. We arrived here ten minutes ago. Now let us 
bi: leit. wi: a'raivd hia ten minits a'gou. nan let as 
go to the train.” 
gou ta da trein. 3> 
They were the last people to enter the train. “Good-bye, 
dei wa: da la:st pi:pl tu enta da trein. “'gud'bai, 
mother,” said Brown, kissing his mother on the mouth; 
m\da, 3> sed braun, Icisiy hiz nwdar an da mauf : 
He drives, he 
drove, he has dri¬ 
ven | draivz. drouv, 
driv)\ 1. 
slow 
slowly 
A slow driver. 
The driver is slow. 
The driver drives 
slowly. 
nervous 
nervously 
The nervous boy 
dropped his book 
on the floor. 
The boy is ner¬ 
vous. 
“I cannot do it,” 
said the boy ner¬ 
vously. 
enter = go into 
kissing his mother 
= and kissed his 
mother 
229 
Chapter Twenty-Six (26). 
smiling 
smilingly 
We saw the men’s 
smiling faces. 
The men were 
smiling. 
The men said good¬ 
bye smilingly. 
He sings, he sang, 
he has sung 
[siris, seen, JAfi]. 
“now I am leaving you and our good old country for 
“nan ai am li:viy jit: dnd aito gud onld kwntri fa 
two weeks.” “Good-bye, my boy, I hope you will have 
tu: wi:ks” “'gud'bai, uiai bai, ai hoitp jit: zeil hcrv 
a good time in England.” 
d gud taim in iy gland” 
Wood’s sister had also come along with her brother to 
zvudz sistd had a.lsou kAin a'lay zvid ha: biwda ta 
the station, and when she kissed him good-bye, she 
da steifan, and hzven fi: hist him gud'bai, fi: 
asked him to buy something for her in England. When 
a:skt him ta bai SAmpitj fa: ha: in iy gland. hwen 
the train was leaving the station, the three young men 
da trein waz li.viy da steifan, da pri: jAy men 
shouted a hurrah as loud as they could. “I never knew 
fautid a hu'ra: az laud az dei kud. “ai nova nju: 
you could shout as loud as that,” Mr. Miller said 
j it: kud faut az laud az deet” mist a mila sed 
smilingly. 
smailiyli. 
Brown: “Well, I never knew, myself. But now that 
braun: “zvel, ai neva nju:, mat self. bAt nau dat 
we have started on our trip, let us sing a song. Wood 
wi: hav sta:tid an aua trip, let as sly a say. zvud 
has a very good voice for singing, and he knows so 
hcez a veri gud vais fa siyiy, and hi: nouz sou 
many songs.” Wood: “Do you know the song of 
meni sayz” zvud: “du: ju: nou da say av 
230 
The Twenty-Sixth (26th) Chapter. 
‘The Emperor Napoleon and his ten thousand men’? 
c di empara na'pouljan and hie ten pauzand men 9 ? 
Let us try that. 55 
let as trai dcct. ” 
For the next ten minutes they were singing English 
fa da nekst ten niinits dci zva: siyiy iygiif 
songs at the top of their voices, so loud that almost 
sayz at da tap av dea vaisiz, sou land dat a:lmoust 
everybody in the carriage could hear them. Then, 
ezribadi in da ka>rid$ hud hi a dam. den, 
after some time, they began talking together. The 
ccfta sun taim, dei bi'gcun ta:kiy ta'geda. da 
train in which they were travelling was a very fast 
trein in hwitf dei wa: treeving zvaz a veri fo:st 
one with modern carriages. 
zvah zvid madan kerridyz. 
Mr. Miller: “We are going at a very high speed now, 
mist a miia: “zvi: a: gouiy at a veri hai spi:d mu, 
I should think seventy miles (a hundred and ten 
ai fud piyk sevnti mailz (a IiAndrad and ten 
kilometres) an hour. At this speed we shall soon be 
kitami:taz) an aua. at dis spi:d zvi: fal su:n hi: 
very far from home. 55 Brown: “Have you got a ciga- 
veri fa: fram houm” braun: {< hav ju: gat a siga- 
rette, Storm? I should like to smoke one now. 55 Storm: 
'ret, sta:mf ai fud laik ta smouk zvah nau” sta:m: 
“Yes, here are some cigarettes, but I have no matches. 
“jes, hiar a: saiu siga'rets, bAt ai hcev nou mcetfiz. 
emperor 
at the top of their 
voices = in as loud 
voices as they 
could 
everybody — 
every one 
began talking = 
began to talk 
carriage 
1 mile = 1.61 
kilometres 
soon = in a very 
short time 
match 
231 
Chapter Twenty-Six (26). 
e/ - 
Have you got a match, Mr. Miller?” Mr. Miller: “Yes, 
hav ju: got a mcetj, mist a mild ? 93 mists mils: “jes, 
I have got matches, and I have also.got tobacco, if you 
ai hav got mcetjiz, and ai hdv o:lsou got ta'bcekou, if ju: 
would rather smoke a pipe than cigarettes. I think a 
wud ra:da smouk $ paip don siga'rets. ai pif/k a 
pipe of good tobacco is better than cigarettes or cigars. 
paip dv gud ta'bcekou iz bets dan siga'rets o: si'ga:z. 
And here are to-day’s newspapers if you have not read 
and hiar a: ta'deiz nju:speipaz if ju: hav not red 
them yet. I think they will be the last newspapers we 
dam jet. ai pitjk dei wil bi: da la:st nju:speipaz wi: 
shall read in our own language for the next fortnight. 
fal ri:d in auar oun Icerjgwid 3 fa da nekst fo:tnait. 
To-morrow you must try to read a little in the English 
ta'morou ju: niASt trai to ri:d a litl in di it/glif 
newspapers. I don’t think you will be able to under- 
nju:speipaz. ai dount piyk ju: wil bi: eibl tu And a- 
stand much of them to begin with, but it will be good 
'stand mAtf av dam ta bi'gin wid, bAt it wil bi: gud 
for you to read them together every day, and I will 
fo: ju: ta ri:d dam ta'geda evri dei, and ai wil 
explain the many new and difficult words to you.” 
iks'plein da meni nju: and difikalt wa:dz ta ju :. 33 
Storm (looking out of the window): “How fine the 
sto:m (lukifj aut av da windou): “hau fain da 
232 
weather is now! When I got up this morning, there 
wedar iz nau! hwen ai got Ap dis mo:nit/, dea 
The Twenty-Sixth (26th) Chapter. 
were many clouds in the sky, and I thought we were 
wa: meni klaudz in da skai, and ai pa:t wi: wa: 
going to have rain, but now the sun is shining, and the 
gouiy ta hcev rein, b\t nau da s\n iz jainirj, and da 
sky is blue again, without any clouds.” 
skai iz blu. a'gein, wid'aut eni klaudz .” 
Mr. Miller: “I hope we shall have dry weather as long 
mist d mild: “ai houp wi: fdl hcev drai wed dr dz lorj 
It shines, it shone, 
it has shone [{aim, 
fon, fin]. 
as we are in England. But we cannot be sure. It very 
dz wi: a:r in iyglond. bAt wi: kcenot bi: jud. it veri 
often rains over there, and in winter they sometimes 
o:fn reinz ouvd dee, dnd in wintd dei sxmtaimz 
have fogs. Sometimes when you walk in the streets 
hcev fogz. SAintaimz hwen ju: wo:k in dd stri:ts 
of London, there is such a fog that you cannot see your 
dv Unden, dedr iz SAtf d fog ddt ju: kcenot si: jo: 
hand before you. And a London fog is not white or 
hand bi'fo: ju:. dnd d Unddn fog iz not hwait o: 
grey like the fogs in our own country, but dirty yellow.” 
grei laik dd fogz in audr oun kAntri, bAt de:ti jelou.” 
Storm: “What does yellow mean?” Mr. Miller: “Yellow 
sto:m: “hwot dAZ jelou mi:n?” mistd mild: “jelou 
is the colour of butter, for example.” 
iz dd kAldr dv bAtd, fdr ig'za.mpl.” 
Storm: “Hurrah, in ten minutes we shall be on board 
sto:m: “hu'ra:, in ten minits wi: fdl bi: on bo:d 
the steamer for England. I can see the water now.” 
dd sti:md fdr irjgldnd. ai kdn si: dd wo:to nau.” 
233 
Chapter Twenty-Six (26). 
Brown: “Well, that is good. I hope we can get a good 
braun: “wel, dcet iz gud. ai houp wi: kan get d gud 
lunch on board the steamer, for I am very hungry.” 
/am/ on bo:d da sti:ma, far ai am veri hAygri” 
All the others: “And so am I!” Mr. Miller: “Then let 
o:l di Adaz: {C and sou am ai!” mist a mila: (C den let 
us have our lunch as soon as we get on board.” 
as hcev aua IahJ az su:n az wi: get on bo:d” 
WORDS: 
at length 
pack 
finish 
luggage 
railway 
station 
rather 
driver 
drive 
drove 
driven 
fast 
slow 
nervous 
arrive 
EXERCISE A. 
When Brown had — his luggage, his mother asked him 
whether he wanted her to come — with him, or whether 
he would — go alone. Brown asked the — to drive —, 
because he would be late for his train if the driver — 
too —. Before Brown — the train, he said good-bye 
to his mother and — her on the mouth. In the train 
they — a hurrah and sang so — that almost every¬ 
body in the carriage could — them. The train went 
at a high —, 70 — an hour. When the sun is —, the 
— is blue, but when it is raining, the sky is full of —. 
The train in which they were travelling was a very — 
one with modern —. Mr. Miller would — smoke a — 
than —. Brown wanted to —, but he had no —. Mr. 
Miller explained to them that the fog in London is not 
white or grey, but dirty —. They decided to have 
lunch as — as they got on board the steamer. 
EXERCISE B. 
What was Brown doing just before he started on the 
trip? ... How did Brown and his mother get to the rail- 
234 
The Twenty-Sixth (26th) Chapter. 
way station? ... Did the driver drive fast enough? ... 
Why was Brown nervous? ... Did Brown arrive in 
time? ... What did Wood’s sister say when she kissed 
him good-bye? ... How loud did they sing in the train? 
... What song did they sing? ... What did Mr. Miller 
smoke? ... What was the weather like when Storm got 
up that morning? ... Where does the rain come from? 
... What is the colour of the London fog? ... 
EXERCISE C. 
How to ask and answer questions with ‘who’, ‘whom’, 
or ‘whose’. 
Who is John? Answer ... Question ...? The farmer is 
Mr. Smith’s brother. Who took the children to the 
cinema? Answer ... Question ...? Mrs. Smith’s friend 
Daisy gave the birthday party. Whom did Mr. Smith 
give a watch? Answer ... Question ...? Aunt Jane 
gave John and Helen the shilling. Whom did Mr. Smith 
ask to go with him to the lake? Answer ... Question ...? 
In the picture ‘Wee Willie Wmkie’ they saw Shirley 
Temple. From whom did Mrs. Smith get a letter? 
Answer ... Question ...? Mrs. Smith got the twelve 
pounds from her husband. With whom are the young 
men going to England? Answer ... Question ...? Brown 
had exchanged holidays with one of the young ladies 
at the shop. Whose sister had come along to the 
station? Answer ... Question ...? Brown’s manager 
paid him a month’s extra salary. Whose were the ciga¬ 
rettes that Brown smoked? Answer ... Question ...? 
It was in Mr. Miller’s house that they came together 
to study English. 
be late 
enter 
shout 
hurrah 
loud 
sing 
sang 
sung 
song 
voice 
emperor 
kilometre 
speed 
soon 
cigarette 
smoke 
match 
tobacco 
pipe 
cigar 
cloud 
sky 
shine 
shone 
rain (verb) 
fog 
yellow 
on board 
kiss 
everybody 
along 
carriage 
get up 
so 
mile 
235 
