Chapter Twenty-Seven (27). 
The Twenty-Seventh (27th) Chapter. 
waving their 
handkerchiefs = 
who were 
waving their 
handkerchiefs 
It blows, it blew, 
it has blown 
[blou2, blu:, biotin]. 
ON BOARD THE STEAMER 
As soon as our three young friends and their teacher 
az su:n az aua pri: j\y frendz and. dea ti:tfa 
had got on board the steamer which was to take them 
had gat an ba:d da sti.ma hwitf waz ta teik dam 
to England, they went down to their cabin with their 
tu iygland, dei went daun ta dea koebin wid dea 
luggage. They had got a cabin for four in the third 
lAgid$. dei had gat a kcebin fa fa: in da pa:d 
class, so that they were going to have it all to them- 
kla:s, sou dat dei wa: gouiy ta hcev it a:l ta dam- 
selves. When they came up on Heck again, they went to 
'selvz. hwen dei keim a p an dek a'gein, dei went ta 
look at people waving their handkerchiefs and shouting 
Ink at pi:pi weiviy dea hceykatfifs and fautiy 
good-bye to their friends. Storm: “Now the steamer 
gud'bai ta dea frendz, sta:m: “nau da sti.ma 
has begun to sail.” 
haz bi l gAn ta sell ” 
Mr. Miller: “The weather is not so fine; there is a strong 
mist a mila: “da wedar iz nat sou fain; dear iz a stray 
wind blowing now. It is strong enough to blow our 
wind blouiy nau. it iz stray i'nAf ta blou aua 
hats into the water, so I think we should go down before 
hcets inta da wa:ta, sou ai piyk wi: fud gou daun bi'fa. r 
The Twenty-Seventh (27th) Chapter. 
it is too late, and have our lunch with a cup of strong 
// iz tu: leit, and hcev aua l\nf zvid a k\p av stray 
tea. With such a strong wind blowing, it is very possible 
ti:. zvid s\tf a stray zvind bloniy, it iz veri pasabl 
that we shall be seasick before we get to England. And 
dat zvi: fal hi: si:sik bi'fa: zvi: get tit iygland. and 
from other trips I have made by steamer, I know that 
frain \da trips ai hav mcid bai st'r.ma, ai non dat 
it is better to have eaten something and had something 
it iz beta ta haz* i:tn SAinpiy and heed SAinpiy 
to drink before the seasickness begins.” 
ta driyk bi'fa: da si:siknis bi'ginz” 
Storm: “I do not think it is possible for me to get 
sta:m: “ai du: nat piyk it iz pasabl fa mi: ta get 
seasick. I have been on the sea many times, and I never 
si.sik. ai haz r bi:n an da si: meni taimz, and ai neva 
was seasick, so I do not think I shall get seasick this 
zvaz si.sik, sou aid it: nat piyk ai fal get si:sik dis 
time. But I must say that the wind is very strong, 
taint. b.\t ai niAst sei dat da zvind iz veri stray, 
and the waves of the sea are very big.” 
ami da zveivz av da si: a: veri big” 
Wood: “Oh, that is nothing to speak of. Wait until 
zeud: % ‘ou t dcct iz n\piy ta spi:k av. zveit ah' til \ 
we get farther out to sea, then you are going to see farther 
Zi'i: get fa:dar ant ta si:, den jit: a: goitiy ta si: farthest 
waves.” 
zeeivz” 
with such a strong 
wind blowing = 
when such a strong 
wind is blowing 
It is possible = 
it can be done. 
When they came dawn, they sat down at a table and 
hwen dei keirn daun, dci sat daiin dt a tcibl and 
began to eat. Brown: “Which is the most important 
bi'gan tu i:t. braun: “hwitf is dd moust im l pa:tant 
route for Europeans to England, Mr. Miller?” Mr. 
ru:t fa juara'pi:ans tu iyghnd, mistd mih?” mist a 
Miller: “It is difficult to say which is the most important. 
mih: “it is difikdlt td sci hwitf is da moust ini 1 pa:taut. 
There are many different routes, and I have tried 
dear a: meni difrant ru:ts, and ai hav traid 
several of them. I think the three most important are: 
sevral av dam. ai piyk da pri: moust in? pa :t ant a: : 
Esbjerg-Harwich, The Hook of Holland-Harwich, and 
esbja.g-harid 3, da huh av haland-harid 3, and 
Calais-Dover. The Esbjerg-Harwich route is used 
kcelei-douva. di ezbja:g-harid 3 ru:t is ju:sd 
especially by travellers coming from the north of 
is'pefali bai treevhs k\mirj fram da na:p av 
via = by the 
route of 
Europe. It is a very long route. Travellers coming 
juarap. it iz a veri lay ru:t. trccvlas kwmiy 
from Central Europe, from Germany, for example, go 
fram sentral juarap, fram d^a.mani, far ig'sarmpl, gou 
via The Hook of Holland-Harwich. The shortest one 
vaia da huk av haland-harid 3. da fa.tist wah 
is the Calais-Dover route. It does not take more than 
is da kcelei-douva ru:t. it d\s nat teik ma: dan 
an hour and a quarter to get to England by that route. 
an auar and a kwa:ta ta get tu iygland bai dat ru:t. 
The Twenty-Seventh (27th) Chapter. 
Perhaps you think that there is no time to get seasick 
pa'haps ju: pirjk bat bear iz nou taim ta get si.sik 
on that route, but the trip is sometimes an hour and 
an beet ru:t, b\t ba trip iz SAmtaimz an auar and 
a quarter too long when the wind is blowing hard. 
a kwa:ta tu: lay hwen ba wind iz blouitj ha:d. 
Especially travellers from the south of Europe go 
is'pefali trcevlaz fram ba saup av juarap gou 
via Calais-Dover. Then there are several other routes, 
vaia kalei-douve. ben bear a: sevral \ba ru:ts, 
but they are not so much used as these three.” 
b\t bei a: nat sou mAtf ju:zd az bi:z pri:” 
While they were eating and talking, the steamer got 
hwail bei wa:r i:tiy and ta:kiy, ba sti:ma gat 
far out from land, and here the wind was blowing 
fa:r aut fram land, and hia ba wind waz blouitj 
harder than before they began to sail. People began 
ha:da ban bi'fa: bei bi'gan ta seil. pi:pi bi'gan 
to leave their tables to go to their cabins. Their faces 
ta li:v bea teiblz ta gou ta bea kabinz. bea feisiz 
were very pale. Storm’s and Wood’s faces looked 
wa: veri peil. sta:mz and wudz feisiz lukt 
especially pale; they were almost white. “You look 
is'pefali peil; bei wa:r a.lmoust hwait. “ju: luk 
a little pale,” said Mr. Miller; “wouldn’t it be better 
a litl peilsed mist a mile; “wudnt it bi: beta 
for you to go up on deck to get some fresh air?” 
fa: ju: ta gou Ap an dek ta get sAm fref ee?” 
while they were 
eating = during 
the time they 
were eating 
quickly = fast 
It is impossible = 
it cannot be done. 
impossible = not 
possible 
Stprm: “Yes, I think some fresh air would do me good. 
sta:m: “jes, ai piyk saw fref to wud du: mi: gud. 
The air is very hot down here, isn’t it?” Wood: “I think 
di ear iz veri Jiat daun hid, iznt it?” wud: “ai piyk 
I will go out into the air with you. I like fresh air 
ai wil gou out intd di ea wid ju:. ai laik fref ea 
when I have been in a hot room for some time.” They 
hwen ai hdv bi:n in a Jut ru:in fa saw taim ” dei 
went up on deck very quickly. 
went Ap an dek veri kwikli. 
It is twenty minutes before the steamer gets to England. 
it iz twenti minits bi'fa: da stiima gets tu iy gland. 
The teacher and his three pupils are now all on 
da ti:tfar and hiz pri: pju:plz a: nau a :l an 
the deck of the steamer, looking at the land which 
da dek av da sti:ma, lukiy at da land hwitf 
they can see. 
dei kan si:. 
Storm: “I thought it impossible for me to get seasick. 
sta:m: “ai pa:t it im'pasabl fa mi: ta get si:sik. 
I was not very well when the wind was blowing its 
ai waz tut veri wet hwen da wind waz hlouiy its 
hardest and the waves were so big, but now I am all 
ha:dist and da weivz wa: son big, bAt nau ai am a:l 
right again.” Brown, smiling: “Nothing is impossible 
rait a'gcin” braun, smailhj: “n\piy iz im'pasabl 
in this world.” 
in dis wa:ld ” 
The Twenty-Seventh (27th) Chapter. 
Mr. Miller: “Now we shall be in England in a short 
mist a mil a: iC nau zvi: jal bi: in itjgland in a fa:t 
time. Before we arrive I want to talk to you about 
taim. bi'fj: wi: a'raiv ai zvant ta ta:k ta ju: a'baut 
something important. I have a good friend in London. 
sxmpiy im'pa.tant. ai Jurv a gud frend in Ixndan. 
When I go to England, I always bring a box of fifty (50) 
hzvcn ai gou tu iy gland, ai a.lzvaz briy a baks av fifti 
cigars along for him.” Wood: “Why don’t you buy 
si'ga:z a'lay fa: him” zvud: “hzvai dount ju: bai 
the box of cigars in London?” Mr. Miller: “Because 
da baks av si'ga:z in Ixndan?” mist a mil a: “bi'kaz 
cigars are very expensive in England. You can get 
si'ga:z a: veri iks'pensiv in iy gland. ju: kan get 
a cigar for a shilling, but then it is not very good; 
a si'ga: far a filiy, bxt den it iz nat veri gud; 
if you want a good cigar you have to pay two shillings. 
if ju: zvant a gud si'ga: ju: hcev ta pei tu: filiyz. 
Now, a person must not take more than twenty-five (25) 
nau, a pa:sn mxst nat teik ma: dan tzventi'faiv 
cigars with him through the Customs into England. 
si'ga: z zvid him pru: da kxstamz intu iy gland. 
If you want to take more with you, you must pay duty 
if ju: zvant ta teik ma: zvid ju:, ju: mxst pei dju.ti 
on them. There is a high duty on tobacco in England, 
an dam. dear iz a hai dju:ti an ta'bcekou in iygland, 
so even cigars from our country would be too expensive 
sou i:van si'ga:z fram aua kxntri zvud bi: tu: iks'pensiv 
box 
expensive = dear 
one [zvah] 
two [tu: ] 
three [pri: | 
four [fa:] 
five [fair] 
six [siks] 
seven [scvn\ 
eight [eit] 
nine [twin] 
ten [ten] 
eleven [ Vlcvn ] 
twelve [tzvclz 1 ] 
thirteen ['/>j 1 
fourteen ['fa: l ti:n\ 
fifteen ['fifti :n} 
sixteen ['siks'ti:n\ 
seventeen 
[ l sevn'ti:n J 
eighteen ['ei'ti:n] 
nineteen [ l nain'ti:n] 
twenty [twenti] 
thirty [pa:ti\ 
forty \h:ti] 
fifty [fifti] 
sixty [siksti] 
seventy [sevnti] 
eighty [eiti] 
ninety [nainti] 
a hundred 
[a h\ndrad] 
a thousand 
[a pauzand] 
a million [a miljan] 
i| I had to pay duty on them in England. This time 
if ai heed td pei djir.ti jn ddm in iijghnd. dis tciim 
I have brought seventy-five (75) cigars along; fifty of 
ai hdv brj.t sevnti'faiv si'ga:a d'hij; fifti ov 
them are for my friend, and twenty-five are for myself, 
ddm a: fd mat frond, and twenti'faiv a: fd mai'sclf, 
for the two weeks we are going to stay in England. 
fd dd tu: zvi:ks wi: a: gouiy td stci in ifjghnd. 
Now I will give each of you twenty cigars to take 
nan ai wil giv i:tf dv ju: twenti si'ga:a td teik 
through the Customs. I know you have brought no 
pm: dd kAStdma. ai nou ju: hdv brj:t nou 
cigars yourselves, as you only smoke cigarettes.” 
si'ga:a jj:'selva, da ju: ounli smouk sigd'rets” 
Wood: “I am not sure what is meant by the words duty 
zvud: “ai din njt ftid hwot ia inent bai dd wd'.da dju:ti 
and Customs.” Mr. Miller: “When you want to take 
dnd k\stdma” mistd mild: “hwen ju: wont td teik 
things like cigars or silk stockings into a foreign 
piya laik si'ga.a o: silk stdkiya intu d fjrin 
country, you have to pay some money before they will 
JcAntri, ju: hcev td pei saui niAtii bi'fj: dei wil 
let you take them' with you. That is called to pay duty. 
let ju: teik ddm wid ju:. deet ia kj:ld td pei dju:ti. 
The place or the office where the duty is paid by the 
dd pleis d: di of is hwed dd dju.ti ia peid bai dd 
travellers is called the custom-house. You will under- 
trcevldz ia ko:ld dd kAStdmhaus. ju: wil Andd- 
The Twenty-Seventh (27th) Chapter. 
stand that you cannot get into a foreign country without 
'st<cnd dot ju: kccnot get intu o forin kAntri wid'aut 
going through a custom-house or ‘going through the 
gouiij pm: o kAstomhaus o: ‘gouirj pru: do 
Customs’ as it is called. That is easy to understand, 
kAstomz ’ oz it iz ko:ld. dcct iz i:zi tu Ando'stand, 
isn’t it?” Wood: “Oh yes, now I see what the words 
iznt it?” K'nd: “on jes, nan ai si: hwot do wo:dz 
mean.” 
mi :n” 
EXERCISE A. 
When people get on board a steamer, they first go 
of Europe especially go via Esbjerg-Harwich. Most 
that he needed some-. When travellers arrive in 
WORDS: 
cabin 
deck 
wave (verb) 
sail 
wind 
blow 
blew 
blown 
strong 
hard 
possible 
impossible 
seasick 
seasickness 
sea 
wave 
farther 
farthest 
route 
important 
especially 
traveller 
central 
via 
south 
pale 
fresh 
air 
quickly 
box 
Customs 
custom-house 
duty 
expensive 
seventy-five 
class 
while 
Holland 
is the shortest. 
EXERCISE B. 
Was the weather fine when our four travellers started 
does it take to go to England via the Calais-Dover 
what travellers is the Esbjerg-Harwich route especially 
Did Mr. Miller have to pay duty on the cigars he had 
EXERCISE C. 
How to ask and answer questions with <what’. 
of a leaf is green. What is the name of the Smith 
The Twenty-Seventh (27th) Chapter. 
three when I came. What did George’s parents buy 
a pair of skates for Christmas. What stockings did 
our gardens. What do children write with at school? 
