Chapter Twenty-Eight (28). 
The Twenty-Eighth (28th) Chapter. 
a great many = 
very many 
to each other = 
one to the other 
bad = not good 
IN THE TRAIN TO LONDON 
Mr. Miller and the three friends were going ashore 
mistd mild dnd ba pri: frendz wd: gouirj a'fo: 
from the steamer. Just before the travellers left the 
frdm bd sti:md. d$ASt btfo: bd travlaz left bd 
steamer, a great many porters came on board to take 
sti:md, d greit meni po:tdz keim on bo:d ta teik 
the travellers' luggage ashore. Some of them were 
ba trcevlaz lAgid$ a'fo:. SAm av bam wa: 
speaking together. 
spi.kirj ta'geba. 
Brown: “I heard the porters talk English to each 
braun: “ai ha:d ba po:taz to:k itjglif tu i:tj 
other; I wonder why I did not understand a word of 
a bd; ai WAnda hwai ai did not Anda'stand a wa:d av 
what they said.” Mr. Miller: “I don't wonder. It 
hwot bei sed. )} mist a mila: “ai dount WAnda. it 
would have been a wonder if you had understood what 
wud hav bi:n a WAnda if ju: had And a'stud hwot 
they said. I can tell you that these porters are not 
bei sed. ai kan tel ju: bat bi:z po:taz a: not 
very good at speaking English. Their English is bad; 
veri gud at spi:kiy iyglif • bear iyglif iz bad; 
that is why you did not understand them. An 
bat iz hwai ju: did not Anda'stand bam. an 
The Twenty-Eighth (28th) Chapter. 
Englishman who speaks his language well, you would 
ifjglijmdn hu: spi:ks hiz Iceygwid^ wel, ju: wud 
understand better.” 
Anda'stcend beta.’* 
Brown: “Are you still feeling bad, Wood? You look 
braun: “a: ju: stil fi:liy bced, wud? ju: luk 
a little pale still. I think that the very best thing for 
a litl peil stil. ai piyk ddt da veri best piy fa 
you to do would be to sleep a little in the train.” 
ju: ta du: wud bi: ta sli:p a litl in da trein” 
Wood: “No, I am already feeling much better.” 
wud: “nou, ai am a:Vredi fi:liy niAtf beta” 
They were all glad to get ashore from the steamer. 
del wa:r a:l glced ta get a'fa: fram da sti:ma. 
Brown asked Mr. Miller what they would have to do 
braun a:skt mista mila hwat dei wud hcev ta du: 
now, and he answered that first they would have to 
nau, and hi: a:nsad dat fa:st dei wud hcev ta 
go to the custom-house to get their luggage through 
gou ta da kAstamhaus ta get dea l^gid^ pru: 
the Customs. When they got to the custom-house, they 
da kAstamz. hwen dei gat ta da kAstamhaus, dei 
were asked, “Have you anything to declare?” and at 
wa:r a:skt y “ha>v ju: enipiy ta di'kka?” and at 
the same time they were shown a list of things on 
da seim taim dei wa: foun a list av piyz an 
which duty must be paid. Brown: “Mr. Miller, what 
hwitf dju:ti mASt bi: peid. braun: u mist a mila, hwat 
very good 
much better 
very best 
The boy is very 
good at speaking 
English. 
His brother is 
much better at it. 
Their father is the 
very best at it. 
He may, he might 
[mei, mait]. 
We are through = 
we have finished. 
passport = a piece 
of paper or a small 
book that shows 
who you are 
does the word ‘declare’ mean?” Mr. Miller: “It means 
dxz da wd:d c di'klea y mi:n?” mista mih: “it ini:nz 
to tell whether you have anything to pay duty on, and 
td tel Irweda ju: hcev cnipiy ta pci dju:ti an. and 
on that piece of paper is a list of all the things on which 
an dcet pi:s av peipa iz a list av a:l da piyz an Jnvitf 
duty must be paid.” All four: “We have nothing to 
dju:ti uiASt bi: peid” a:l fa:: “wi: hcev nxpiy ta 
declare.” “All right, then you may go through.” 
di'klea” “a:l rait, den ju: mei gou pru:” 
When they came out, Mr. Miller said, “We are not 
hwen dei keim aut, mist a mih sed, “wi: a: nat 
through yet; now we must go to the passport office. If 
pru: jet; nan wi: mxst gou ta da pa:spa:t afis. if 
they find our passports all right there, we may go on 
dei faind aua pa:spa:ts a:l rait dea, wi: mei gou an 
into England.” As soon as they entered the office, a 
intu iygland.” az su:n az dei entad di afis, a 
man took their passports and looked at them. Then he 
mcen tuk dea pa:spa:ts and lukt cet dam. den hi: 
asked, “Why have you come to England?” Mr. Miller: 
a:skt, “hwai hav ju: kx m tu iy gland?” mist a mila: 
“We have come here for a fortnight’s holidays.” “Where 
“wi: hav kxm hia far a fa:tnaits halidiz” “hwear 
are you going to?” Mr. Miller: “We are going to 
a: ju: gouiy tu?” mista mila: “wi: a: gouiy ta 
London*” “And where are you going to live?” Mr. 
Ixndan” “and hwear a: ju: gouiy ta liv?” mista 
The Twenty-Eighth (28th) Chapter. 
Miller shows him a letter from which it may be seen 
mila jouz him a lei 3 frdm hwitj it mei hi: si:n 
that he has ordered rooms for four at a hotel in London. 
ddt hi: haz a: dad rumiz fd jo: at d hou'tel in Ixndan. 
“Thank you, you may go through.” 
“pceyk jit:, ju: mei gou pru:” 
As soon as they had left the passport office, they went 
az sum dz dei had left da pa:spa:t jfis, dei went 
to the train which was to take them to London. Wood: 
ta da trein hwitj waz ta teik dam ta Ixndan. wud: 
“I do not think there is so much room in this train as 
(( ai du: rut piyk dear iz sou mxtf ru:m in dis trein az 
in ours at home.” Mr. Miller: “No, you are right; 
in auaz at houm” mista mila: “nou, ju: a: rait; 
the English trains are narrower than those of most 
di iijglif treinz a: nceroua dan douz av moust 
other countries.” Storm: “But they go very fast, much 
\da kxntriz” stami: (C bxt dei gou veri fa:st, mxtf 
faster than ours at home.” Brown: “Yes, of all the 
fa:sta dan auaz at houm ” hraun: iC jes, av o:l da 
trains in Europe the English go fastest, I think. At 
treinz in juarap di iyglij gou fa:stist, ai piyk. at 
this speed we shall be in London in a short time.” 
dis spi:d iid: fal hi: in Ixndan in a fa:t taim” 
Wood: “That is fine, for the steamer went very 
wud: “deet iz fain, fa da stimia went veri 
slowly.” 
slouli” 
fast 
faster 
fastest 
The train goes 
fast. 
It goes faster than 
ours at home. 
The trains in Eng¬ 
land go fastest. 
slowly 
more slowly 
most slowly 
The steamer went 
slowly. 
It went more 
slowly than last 
time. 
It went most 
slowly twelve 
years ago. 
very fast 
very slowly 
much faster 
much more slowly 
The trains go 
very fast 
The steamer went 
very slowly. 
The trains go 
much faster than 
at home. 
The steamer went 
much more slowly 
than last time. 
all over = in 
every place 
They live on the 
grass = they get 
no other food than 
the grass. 
Mr. Miller: “Yes, it went much more slowly than last 
mistd mild: “jes, it went m\tj ///.>; slouli dan la:st 
time I came to England. But it went most slowly 
taint ai keim tu itjghnd. b.\t it went nioust slouli 
when once, twelve years ago, 1 was coming to England. 
hwen waus, twclv jiaz a'gou, ai waz JcAiniij tu itjgland. 
Then the wind was the very strongest and the waves 
den da wind waz da veri straygist and da weivz 
the very biggest I ever saw on a trip to England.” 
da veri bigist ai cva sa: an a trip tu iy gland” 
Storm: “What large fields of grass they have in this 
sta:m: u hwat la:d$ fi:ldz av gra:s dei hcev in dis 
country! And how many there are of them! Three 
kAntri! and hau meni dear a: av dam! pri: 
fields out of four have grass! And there are a great 
fi'.ldz ant av fa: hcev gra:s! and dear a: a greit 
many sheep in some of them.” 
meni fi:p in saiu av dam ” 
Mr. Miller: “Yes, the English have large fields of grass 
niista mil a: (C jes, di iyglif hcev la:d$ fi:ldz av gra:s 
all over the country, and in many places there are sheep 
a:l ouva da kAntri, and in meni pleisiz dear a: fi:p 
which live on the grass.” Storm: “But what about corn? 
hwitf liv an da gra.s.” sta:m: u b\t hwat a'baut ka:n? 
The people in this country cannot live on the corn 
da pi:pl in dis kAntri kcenat liv an da ka:n 
they have in their fields. I have seen some fields 
dei hcev in dea fi'.ldz. ai hav si:n s.\m fi'.ldz 
' The Twenty-Eighth (28th) Chapter. 
of corn from the train, but there cannot be enough for 
av ka:n fram da trcin, b\t dea kcenat bi: i'n\f fa 
45,000,000 people.” 
fa:ti'faiv iniljan pi'.pl” 
Mr. Miller: “When I was in England years ago, I think 
mista niila: “hwen ai was in iygland jiaz a'gou, ai j>iyk 
that nine fields out of ten had grass. There are now 
dat min fi:ldz ant av ten heed gra:s. dear a: nan 
many more fields with corn than before. But, as you 
meni ma: fi:ldz wid ka:n dan bi'fa :. b\t, az jit: 
say, there is not enough corn for 45,000,000 people. 
sei, dear iz not i x n\f ka:n fa fa:ti'faiv iniljan pi:pi. 
The English get much of their corn from foreign 
di iyglif get niAtf av dea ka:n fram farm 
countries. And not only corn, but butter, eggs, and 
kxntriz. and nat ounli ka:n, b.\t bxta, egz, and 
meat as well.” Wood: “But why did they have nine 
/ ni:t az ivcl” zvnd: u bAt hwai did dei heev nain 
fields out of ten with grass?” 
fi:ldz ant av ten wid gra:s?” 
Mr. Miller: “For many years, much of the land was 
mist a mil a: “fa mcni jiaz, mAtf av da leend waz 
in the hands of only a few people, and they were not 
in da Jiccndz av onnli a fju: pi:pi, and dei wa: nat 
much interested in growing corn. They went out 
m\tj intristid in groniy ka:n. dei went ant 
hunting in the fields and in the woods. But nowadays, 
IiAntiij in da fi.ldz and in da wndz. bAt nauadeiz, 
He grows, he grew, 
he has grown 
[grous, gru:, groun]. 
nowadays = at the 
present time 
There are more 
people who own 
the land = the 
land is in the 
hands of more 
people. 
umd, 
there are more people who own the land. Many of 
dear a: mo: pi:pi hu: oun do land. meni ov 
these people are interested in growing corn instead of 
di:z pi:pi a:r intristid in grouiy ko:n in'sted dv 
having fields of grass, so there are more fields of corn 
haviy fi:ldz ov >gra:s, sou dear a: mo: fi:ldz ov ko:n 
than there were at one time. Then there is another 
dan dea wa:r at wau taim. den dear iz a'nxda 
thing, too. From the year 1939 until the 
pig, tu:. fram da jia nainti:n pa:ti'nain a h' til da 
year 1945, it was very difficult for England 
jia nainti:nfo:ti'faiv, it waz veri difikalt far lygland 
to get corn from other countries. It was important 
ta get ko:n fram Ada kAntriz. it waz im'po:tant 
for England to grow more corn, so that many of the 
far iy gland ta grou mo: ko:n, sou dat meni av da 
fields that had grass at one time, now have corn instead 
fi:ldz dat had gra:s at wAn taim, nau hav ko:n in'sted 
of grass.” 
av gra:s.” 
Wood: “Have they any woods in England?” Mr. Miller: 
wud: “hav dei eni wudz in iy gland?” mist a mila: 
“Yes, they have a great many woods, some of them 
“jes, dei hav a greit meni wudz, sAm av dam 
owned by rich people. But before 1939, 
ound bai ritj pi:pi. b\t bi'fo: nainti:n pa:ti'nain, 
they did not make much use of the trees in their woods. 
dei did not meik mAtf ju:s av da tri:z in dea wudz. 
The Twenty-Eighth (28th) Chapter. 
From 1939 to 1945 it was im- 
fram nain ti: n pa: ti' nain ta nainti: n fo: ti'faiv it waz ini - 
possible to get things from Sweden and Finland. In 
'posabl td get piyz fram swi:dn and finland. in 
those years the English had to make more use of their 
bouz jiaz di iyglif heed ta meik mo: ju:s av bear 
own trees. I think that the English are more interested 
oun tri:z. ai piyk bat bi iyglif a: mo:r intristid 
in shooting birds and other animals in their woods.” 
in fu:tiy ha:ds and Abar eenimalz in be a wudz” 
Urd 
He shoots, he 
shot, he has shot 
[fu:ts, jot, 
jot]. 
Storm: “What do they shoot with? I don’t know that 
storm: “hwot du: bei ju:t zvib? ai dount nou beet 
word in English.” Mr. Miller: “It is called a gun. The 
wa:d in iyglif ” mist a mil a: “it iz ko:ld a g\n. bi 
English are also very interested in hunting foxes, but 
iyglif a:r o:lsou veri intristid in h\ntiy foksiz, b\t 
they do not shoot the foxes with guns.” 
bei du: not fu:t ba foksiz wib gxnz ." 
Wood: “No, I have heard that rich English people like 
wud: “nou, ai hav ha:d bat ritf iyglif pi:pl laik 
fox-hunting very much, and that they hunt the foxes 
foksh\ntiy veri mAtf, and bat bei JiAnt ba foksiz 
on horseback with hounds, as the dogs are called which 
on ho:sbeek wib haundz, az ba dogz a: ko:ld hwitf 
on Horseback = 
on the back of a 
horse 
they use for this. They ride on their horses after the 
bei ju:z fa bis. bei raid on be a ho:siz a:fta ba 
hound = dog used 
for hunting 
He rides, he rode, 
he has ridden 
[raidz, roud, ridn ]. 
fox, and the hounds run after it, too. The fox tries 
foks, and ba haundz r\n a:ftar it, tu:. ba foks traiz 
He runs, he ran, 
he has run 
[r\ns, ran , taw ]. 
ta run away, but it cannot run so fast as the horses 
o 
ta r\n a'wei, b\t it kccnat r\n son fa:st az da ha:siz 
and the hounds, and at last it must give up running, 
and da haundz, and at lci:st it mAst giv a p rAniy, 
and the hounds get it.” 
and da haundz get it* 
Mr. Miller: “Yes, that is right. And don’t forget that 
mist a mila: “jes, dcet iz rait. and dount fa'get dat 
it is only the dogs used for hunting which are called 
it iz ounli da dagz ju:zd fa hAntiy hwitf a: ka:ld 
hounds. You will find that many Englishmen like to 
haundz. ju: wil faind dat meni iyglifman laik ta 
go out shooting. They go out with their guns to shoot 
gou ant fu:tiy. dei gou aut wid dea g\nz ta fu:t 
birds and other animals. But people go out shooting 
ba:dz and Adar cenimalz. bAt pi:pi gou aut ju:tiy 
in every country. I have sometimes shot birds at home 
in evri k'Antri. ai hav SAmtaimz fat ba:dz at houm 
myself.” 
tnci'self” 
Storm: “That may be so; but instead of that I would 
sta:m: “dcet mei bi: sou ; bAt in'sted av dcet ai wud 
rather take a good walk in the woods and look at the 
ra:da teik a gud wa:k in da wudz and luk at da 
trees and the many beautiful birds.” 
tri:z and da meni bju:taful ba:dz. 3} 
The Twenty-Eighth (28th) Chapter. 
EXERCISE A. 
When the steamer arrived in England, the travellers 
office. The man at the passport office asked them 
EXERCISE B. 
What was Brown wondering at when he heard the 
WORDS: 
ashore 
a great many 
porter 
each other 
wonder (verb) 
wonder 
anything 
bad 
declare 
list 
may 
might 
on 
passport office 
passport 
live on 
grow 
grew 
grown 
hunt 
fox-hunting 
fox 
wood 
own (verb) 
nowadays 
instead of 
on horseback 
dog 
hound 
ride 
rode 
ridden 
run 
ran 
shoot 
shot 
gun 
bird 
room 
very 
all over 
why 
look (verb) 
Englishman 
Did the English trains look like those of their own 
Mr. Miller showed to the man at the passport office? 
EXERCISE C. 
How to ask and answer questions with ‘which*. 
Which is the oldest person of our four travellers? 
in the Smith family. In which of the rooms do we 
from the cows, not from the sheep. Which of the four 
and Helen go to school. Which do you like better, to 
Harwich, and Calais-Dover are the most important 
routes. 
