Chapter Twenty-Nine (29). 
The Twenty-Ninth (29th) Chapter. 
IN LONDON 
Wood: “It seems to me that there are so many trains 
wud: “it si:mz ta mi: dat dear a: sou meni treinz 
now. Every minute a train goes past us.” Storm: 
nau. evri minit a trein gouz pa:st as ." sta:m: 
“Yes, it seems that we are near London now.” Mr. 
“jes, it si:mz dat zvi: a: nia l And an nau” mist a 
Miller: “We are not only near London; we are in Greater 
mil a: “wi: a: not ounli nia l And an; zvi: a:r in greita 
London.” Brown: “I have never seen so many trains 
lAndan” braun: “ai hav neva si:n sou meni treinz 
before. It seems as if there is no end to them. And 
bi'fa:. it si:mz az if dear iz nou end ta dam. and 
all the trains which go in the opposite direction are 
a:l da treinz hwitf gou in di apazit dtrekfan a: 
so filled with people that many of them cannot find 
sou fild zvid pi:pi dat meni av dam kcenat faind 
any seats and have to stand on their feet, but in the 
eni si:ts and hcev ta stand an dea fi:t, bAt in da 
trains going in the same direction as we go there are 
treinz gouirj in da seim di'rekfan az zvi: gou dear a: 
so few people that they are almost empty.” 
sou fju: pi:pl dat dei a:r a.lmoust emti” 
Mr. Miller: “Yes, and no wonder! The trains going 
mist a mila: “jes, and non w\nda! da treinz gouirj 
Greater London = 
London itself to¬ 
gether with the 
places near the 
town 
filled with = 
full of 
He stands, he 
stood, he has stood 
[stands, stud, stud]. 
the trains going 
in the same direc¬ 
tion = the trains 
which go in the 
same direction 
257 
Chapter Twenty-Nine (29). 
way (here) = 
direction 
the main stations 
= the most im¬ 
portant stations 
started countings 
started to count 
in the opposite direction come from London, and all 
in di opazit di'rekjan k\m fram l\ndan, and o:l 
the people in them are going home from work. Re¬ 
cta pi:pi in dam a: gouiy honm .fram wa:k. ri- 
member it is past five o'clock now. At this time of 
'memba it iz pa:st faiv a'khk nau. at dis taim av 
the day every one is leaving London, and no one is 
da dei evri wah iz li:virj l And an, and nou WAn iz 
going the opposite way. That is why all the trains 
gouiy di opazit wei. dcet iz hwai o:l da treinz 
going up to London are almost empty.” 
gouiy Ap ta l\ndan air oilmoust cmti” 
A little later they arrived at one of the main stations 
a litl leita dei a'raivd at wah av da mein steifanz 
of London. It was a very large building. A great 
av lAndan. it waz a veri laid 3 bildiy. a greit 
many people were standing on the platforms, waiting 
meni pi:pi wa: stcendiy on da plcetfoimz, weitiy 
for their trains. 
fa dea treinz. 
Wood: “How many platforms do you think there are?” 
umd: (C hau mcni plcetfoimz du: ju: piyk dear a:?” 
Storm: “Let us try to count them.” They all started 
stoun: <( let as trai ta kaunt dam.'- dei o:l staitid 
counting. 
kaunt iy. 
Storm: “What a great number! I counted twenty- 
stoim: (i hwot a greit nxmba! ai kauntid twenti- 
258 
The Twenty-Ninth (29th) Chapter. 
four (24).” Wood: “Then you must add one to your 
'fo: .” wud: “den ju: mAst ced w\n ta jo: 
number, for I counted twenty-five (25).” 
nAmba, far ai kauntid twenti'faiv.” 
Storm: “Well, Brown, tell us the right number now. 
sto:m: “wcl, braun, tel as da rait nAmba nan. 
How many did you count?” Brown: “You must add one 
hau meni did ju: kaunt?” braun: “ju: mAst ced wah 
to Wood’s number. I think there are twenty-six (26).” 
ta wudz nAmba. ai pitgk dear a: twenti'siks . 33 
Mr. Miller: “Well, we know that there are between 
mist a mila: “wel, wi: nou dat dear a: bi'twi.n 
twenty (20) and thirty (30). Some of the main stations 
twenti and pa:ti. sAm av da mein steifanz 
of London — and there are eleven or twelve of them — 
av lAndan — and dear a: i'levn o: twelv av dam — 
have between twenty (20) and thirty (30) platforms.” 
hcev bi'twi'.n twenti and pa:ti plcetfo:mz . 33 
Many porters were very busy, working on the platforms. 
meni po:taz wa: veri bizi, wa: kit} on da plcetfo:mz. 
As soon as a train stopped at a platform, some of them 
az su:n az a trein stopt at a plcetfo.m, SAin av dam 
were ready to take the travellers’ luggage, and already 
wa: redi ta teik da trcezdaz lAgid 3, and o.l'redi 
before the train of our four travellers had stopped, one 
bi'fo: da trein av ana fo: trcevlaz had stopt, WAn 
had got into it. He came up to them and asked them if 
had got intu it. hi: keim a p ta dam and a:skt dam if 
8/2 
259 
Chapter Twenty-Nine (29). 
off = down from 
He builds, he built, 
he has buUt [bilds, 
hilt, bilt]. 
he might help them to carry their luggage. 
hi: mait help dam td keen dea lAgid$. 
Mr. Miller: “No, thank you, we have only one bag each, 
nrsta mila: “nou, pceyk ju:, wi: hcev ounli wah bceg i:tj, 
so we can easily carry them without your help.” When 
sou wi: kan i.zili kceri dam wid'aut jo: help ” hwen 
they had got off the train, Mr. Miller said, “Now we 
dci had gat a:f da trein, mista mila sed, “nau ivi: 
will go by an Underground train to the part of London 
wil gou bai an Andagraund trein ta da pa:t av l And an 
where our hotel is.” Wood: “Underground? What does 
hwear aua hou'tel iz” wud: “Andagraundf hwat dAZ 
that mean?” 
deet mi:n?” 
Mr. Miller: “The Underground is a railway which is 
mista mila: “di Andagraund iz a reilwei hwitf iz 
built under the streets and buildings of London. You 
bill a nda da stri:ts and bildiyz av L\ndan. ju: 
can go to many places in London by Underground.” 
kan gou ta meni pleisiz in l And an bai Andagraund” 
Wood: “Isn't it a wonder to think that they can build 
wud: {C iznt it a WAnda ta piyk dat dei kan bild 
railways under the streets and buildings of a large city?” 
reilzveiz And a da stri.ts and bildiyz av a la:d$ sitif ” 
Just then a train arrived at the Underground station. 
d^Ast den a trein a'raivd at di Andagraund steijan. 
Wood: “There is a train. Let us run.” He began to 
wud: “dear iz a trein. let as rAn” hi: bi'gcen ta 
260 
The Twenty-Ninth (29th) Chapter. 
run along the platform, but it was too late. Just before 
r\n e'lay da plcetfa:m, b\t it tvaz tu: leit. d$ASt bi'fa: 
he got to the door, it closed, and off the train went. 
hi: gat ta da da:, it klouzd, and a:f da trein went. 
Wood: “Oh, I am sorry that we were late for it; now 
witd: “on, ai am sari dat wi: wa: leit far it; nau 
we must wait for the next train.” Mr. Miller: “You 
wi: niAst wcit fa da nekst trein / 9 mista mile: “ju: 
need not be sorry about that. We shall not have to 
ni:d nat hi: sari a'baut dcet. wi: fel nat heev ta 
wait very long.” Two minutes later another train 
weit veri lay” tu: minits leita a'nAda trein 
arrived. When they had got into it, Brown tried to 
e'raivd. hwen dei had gat intu it, braun traid ta 
close the door, but Mr. Miller said, “You need not close 
klous da da:, bAt mista mile sed, “ju: ni:d nat klouz 
it; the doors close of themselves.” The train was so 
it: da da:z klouz av dam'selvz.” da trein waz sou 
filled with people that there were no seats empty. 
fild wid pi:pi dat dea wa: nou si:ts emti. 
Mr. Miller and the three young men had to stand, but 
mista mile and da pri: jAy men heed ta stcend, bAt 
it was only for a few minutes. They soon arrived at 
it waz ounli far a fju: minits. dei sum e'raivd at 
Tottenham Court Road Station, where they got off the 
tatnam ka:t roud steifan, hwea dei gat a:f da 
train. As the hotel was only five minutes from the 
trein. az da hou'tel waz ounli faiv minits fram da 
261 
Chapter Twenty-Nine (29). 
station, they decided to walk. While they were walking 
steifdn, dei d-f said-id ta wa:k. hwail dei wa: wa:kiy 
along, the three young men told Mr. Miller that now 
a 1 lay, da pri: jAy men tould mista mila dat nau 
they found that they understood much of the language. 
dei fannd dat dei Anda'stud mAtf av da laygwid 3. 
While they were standing in the Underground train, 
hwail dei wa: stcendirj in di And a ground trein, 
they had heard some people from an office talking 
dei had ha:d saw pi: pi fram an of is ta:kiy 
together, and they had understood most of what they 
ta'geda, and dei had Anda'stud moust av hwot dei 
said. Mr. Miller: “That was what I told you. Many 
sed. mista mila: “dat was hwat ai tould ju:. meni 
porters speak bad English, and that is very difficult 
po:taz spi:k heed iyglif, and dat is veri difikalt 
as spoken = in the 
way in which it is 
spoken 
for you to understand, but English as spoken by people 
fa ju: tu And a 1 st and, bAt iyglif as spoukanbai pi: pi 
working in an office, for example, will not be so difficult. 
wa: kiy in an afis, far ig'sa:mpl, wil nat bi: sou difikalt. 
You will soon find that you can understand very much 
ju: wil su:n faind dat ju: kan Anda'stand veri mAtf 
of what they say.” 
av hwat dei sei” 
262 
The Twenty-Ninth (29th) Chapter. 
EXERCISE A. 
It — to Wood that a train went — them every minute. 
The trains which went in the same — as theirs were 
almost —, but the ones which went in the — direction 
were — with people. The trains were so full of people 
that there were not — enough for all, so that many had 
to — on their feet. The train arrived at one of the — 
stations of London. When they tried to — the platforms, 
they got different —. The porters helped people to 
carry their luggage, but Mr. Miller and the three young 
men had only one — each, so they did not need any —. 
The — is a railway which is — under the streets and 
buildings of London. The doors of the Underground 
trains — of themselves. Why did Wood run — the 
platform? Because a train had just —, and he wanted 
to get into the train. What were the young men talking 
to Mr. Miller about — they were walking to the hotel? 
They were talking about the way in which English is — 
by different people. 
EXERCISE B. 
Are there many people going up to London after five 
o’clock? ... Did they arrive at a small station in Lon¬ 
don? ... What do porters do? ... Did the young men 
and their teacher need any help with their luggage? ... 
How did they get from the main station to their hotel? 
... What was Wood sorry to find? ... Why did they not 
have to close the doors of the Underground train? ... 
Why did they all have to stand in the Underground 
WORDS: 
seem 
past 
opposite 
direction 
filled 
seat 
stand 
stood 
main 
platform 
count 
number 
add 
stop 
help (verb) 
help 
bag 
carry 
Underground 
along 
close 
sorry 
no one 
off 
building 
build 
built 
under 
263 
Chapter Twenty-Nine (29). 
train? ... Is English as spoken by the English porters 
easy to understand? ... Where is the Underground 
built? ... How many platforms were there at the main 
station where they arrived? ... How did the young men 
find out the number of platforms? ... 
EXERCISE C. 
How to ask and answer questions with <what 9 
or ‘which 9 . 
What was the idea that Brown got when he was walking 
home from his work? Answer ... Question ...? The 
idea that Mr. Miller had been thinking of was to speak 
English always when they were together. Which did 
Brown smoke, a pipe or a cigarette? Answer ... Question 
...? July is the best month to go to England. What 
did John and Helen take along to the lake? Answer ... 
Question ...? John’s parents gave him a book and a 
football for his birthday. Which of the shirts did George 
get, the ones with broad stripes or the ones with narrow 
stripes? Answer ... Question ...? The younger children 
write with pencils. What museum were they going to 
see? Answer ... Question ...? Mrs. Smith was going 
to put on her new frock for Daisy’s birthday-party. 
Which of the people they heard spoke bad English, the 
porters or the people working in offices? Answer ... 
Question ... ? Mr. Miller and the three young men had 
to stand. In what way did they get from the Under¬ 
ground to the hotel? Answer ... Question ...? They 
got off the Underground train at Tottenham Court Road 
Station. 
264 
