Chapter Three (3). 
The Third (3rd) Chapter. 
what? 
it 
they 
What is the name 
of the boy? 
It is' John. 
What are 
the names of the 
girls? 
They are Helen 
and Alice. 
NAMES 
The name of the boy is John. The name of the girl 
da neim av da boi iz dyn. da neim av da ga:l 
is Helen. The name of the father is Mr. Smith. 
iz helin. da neim av da fa: da iz mist a smip. 
The name of the mother is Mrs. Smith. What is the 
da neim av da m\da iz misiz smip. hwot iz da 
name of the girl? It is Helen. 
neim av da ga:l? it iz helin. 
What is the name 
hwot iz da neim 
of the baby girl? It is Alice. 
av da beibi ga:l? it iz celis. 
What is the name 
hwat iz da neim 
of the boy? It is John. What are the names of the 
av da boi? it iz dyn. hwot a: da neimz av da 
parents? They are Mr. and Mrs. Smith. What is the 
pearants? del a: mista and misiz smip. hwot iz da 
name of the family? It is Smith. Mr. Smith has a wife. 
neim av da fcemili? it iz smip. mista smip hcez a waif. 
Her name is Mrs. Smith. Mr. Smith has a daughter. 
ha: neim iz misiz smip. mista smip hcez a do:ta. 
Her name is Helen. Mr. Smith has a son. His name 
ha: neim iz helin. mista smip hcez a SAn. hiz neim 
is John. 
iz dyn. 
Has Mr. Smith a wife? Yes, he has a wife. What 
hcez mista smip a waif? jes, hi: hcez a waif. hwot 
The Third (3rd) Chapter. 
is the name of his wife? Her name is Mrs. Smith. 
iz be neim ev hiz waif ? he: neim iz misiz smip. 
Has Mr. Smith a son? Yes, he has a son. What 
hcez miste smip $ s\n? jes, hi: hcez 9 SAn. hwot 
is the name of his son? His name is John. Mr. 
iz bd neim ev hiz sau? hiz neim iz dyn. mistd 
Smith has a son and two daughters. What are the 
smip hcez 9 SAn 9nd tu: do:tez. hwot a: be 
names of the three children? Their names are John, 
neimz ev be pri: tfildren? bee neimz a: dyn, 
Helen, and Alice. 
helin, end alis. 
John is twelve years old. How old is John? He is 
dyn iz twelv jiez ould. hau ould iz dynf hi: iz 
twelve years old. Helen is ten years old. How old is 
twelv jiez ould. helin iz ten jiez ould. hau ould iz 
Helen? She is ten years old. The baby is six months 
helin? ji: iz ten jiez ould. be beibi iz siks mAnps 
old. How old is the baby? She is six months old. 
ould. hau ould iz be beibi? fi: iz siks mAnps ould. 
John is twelve years old, and Helen is ten years 
dyn iz twelv jiez ould, end helin iz ten jiez 
old. John is two years older than Helen. Is John 
ould. dyn iz tu: jiez oulde been helin. iz dyn 
fourteen (14) years old? No, he is not fourteen 
fo:ti:n jiez ould? nou, hi: iz not fo:ti:n 
years old; he is only twelve years old. Is Helen 
jiez ould; hi: iz ounli twelv jiez ould. iz helin 
his 
her 
their 
The name of the 
husband is Mr. 
Smith. His name 
is Mr. Smith. 
The name of the 
wife is Mrs. 
Smith. Her name 
is Mrs. Smith. 
The names of the 
children are John, 
Helen, and Alice. 
Their names are 
John, Helen, and 
Alice. 
thirteen (13) years old? No, she is not thirteen 
pa:ti:n jias ould? nou, fi: is not pd:ti:n 
years old; she is only ten years old. Is Helen 
jidz ould; fi: is ounli ten jias ould. is helin 
older than John? No, she is not older than John; 
oulda dcen dyn? nou, fi: is not oulda dcen dyn; 
John is two years older than she is. 
dyn is tu: jias oulda dcen fi: is. 
John is not fourteen, but only twelve years old. Helen 
dyn is not fo:ti:n, b\t ounli twelv jias ould. helin 
is not thirteen, but only ten years old. John is not a girl, 
is not pa:ti.n, bAt ounli ten jias ould. dyn is not a ga:l, 
but Helen is a girl. Helen is not a boy, but John is a 
bAt helin is a ga:l . helin is not a boi, b\t dyn is a 
boy. The baby is not old; she is young. She is only six 
boi. da beibi is not ould; fi: is jAtj. fi: is ounli siks 
months old. Mr. Smith is a young man; he is thirty-six 
mAnps ould. mista smip is a jAtj mcen; hi: is pa:ti'siks 
(36) years old. Mrs. Smith is a young woman; she is 
jias ould. misis smip is a jAtj wuman; fi: is 
thirty-two (32) years old. Mr. Smith has a father. The 
pa:ti'tu: jias ould. mista smip hces a fa:da. do 
father of Mr. Smith is not young; he is old. He is 
fa:da av mista smip is not jAtj; hi: is ould. hi: is 
sixty-two (62) years old. John, Helen, and the baby 
siksti'tu: jias ould. dyn, helin, and da beibi 
are young; they are children. 
a: jAtj; dei a: tfildran. 
The Third (3rd) Chapter. 
Mr. and Mrs. Smith are also young, but they are older 
mistd and misiz smip a: o:lsou jAy, b\t dei a: oulda 
than the children. The children are younger than their 
Seen da tfildran. da tfildran a: jAyga deen dea 
parents. Is John younger than Helen? No, he is not 
pear ants. iz dyn jAyga deen helinf nou, hi: iz not 
younger than Helen; he is two years older than Helen. 
jAyga deen helin; hi: iz tu: jiaz oulda deen helin. 
Is the baby younger than Helen? Yes, she is the 
iz da beibi JAyga deen helin? jes, ji: iz da 
youngest of the children. Which of the persons in the 
j Ay gist av da tfildran. hwitj av da pa:snz in da 
family is the oldest? The father of Mr. Smith is the 
feemili iz di ouldist? da fa: da av mist a smip iz di 
oldest. Which of the three children is the youngest? 
ouldist. hwitf av da pri: tfildran iz da JAygist? 
The baby is the youngest. 
da beibi iz da jAygist. 
Has John three sisters? No, he has only two sisters, 
heez dpn pri: sistaz? nou, hi: heez ounli tu: sistaz, 
not three. Have Mr. and Mrs. Smith four children? 
not pri:. heev mista and misiz smip fo: tfildran? 
No, they have not four children, but only three. Have 
nou, dei hcev not fo: tfildran, bAt ounli pri:. heev 
Mr. and Mrs. Smith two sons? No, they have only one 
mista and misiz smip tu: SAnz? nou, dei heev ounli wau 
son, but two daughters. 
sau, bAt tu: do:taz. 
young 
younger 
youngest 
Helen is young. 
She is younger 
than John. 
The baby is the 
youngest of the 
three children. 
old 
older 
oldest 
How old is John? 
John is older than 
Helen. 
The father of Mr. 
Smith is the oldest 
person in the 
family. 
has 
have 
John has two 
sisters. 
Mr. and Mrs. 
Smith have three 
children. 
What is the name of the family? The name of the 
hwat iz da neim dv da fcemili? da neim av da 
family is Smith. What is Helen? Helen is a girl. 
fcemili iz smip. hwat iz helin? helin iz a ga:l. 
Which of the children is the boy? John is the boy. 
hwitf av da tjildran iz da baif d$an iz da bai. 
What day is it? It is Sunday. What is the first day 
hwat dei iz it? it iz SAtidi. hwat iz da fa:st dei 
of the week? Sunday is the first day of the week. 
av da wi:kf s\ndi iz da fa:st dei av da wi:k. 
What is the name of the first month? The name of 
hwat iz da neim av da fa:st mAnpf da neim av 
the first month is January. Which of the months is 
da fa:st mAnp iz d^cenjuari. hwitf av da mAnps iz 
the second? February is the second month. 
da sekandf februari iz da sekand mAnp . 
EXERCISE A. 
names are John, Helen, and Alice. Mr. and Mrs. Smith 
The Third (3rd) Chapter. 
children is the youngest?-is the youngest.-the 
persons in the family is the oldest? The father of Mr. 
persons in the family is the youngest? The baby is the 
she is-the baby. Is the baby-of the children? 
EXERCISE B. 
What is the name of the baby girl?-. 
Which of the children is the boy?-. What 
day is it?-. What is the first day of the 
week?-. What is the name of 
WORDS: 
name 
what? 
it 
yes 
no 
his 
her 
their 
old 
young 
than 
not 
but 
thirty-two 
thirty-six 
sixty-two 
the family?-. Which of the persons 
in the family is the oldest?-. Which 
of the children is the youngest?-. 
How old is she?-. How old is Mr. Smith? 
-. How old is Helen?-. How 
many years is John older than Helen?-. 
-. What is his name?-. Which 
of the children is ten years old?-. 
