Chapter Thirty (30). 
The Thirtieth (<30th) Chapter. 
AT THE HOTEL 
Mr. Miller: “We are now in the street where our hotel 
mist a mila: “wi: a: nau in da stri:t hwear aua hou'tel 
is. All the buildings we have passed the last three or 
iz. o:l da bilditjz wi: hav pa:st da la:st pri: o: 
four minutes, are hotels. This part of the town is well 
for minits, a: hou'telz. dis pa:t av da taun iz wel 
known for its many cheap hotels. It is called Blooms- 
nonn far its meni tfi:p hou'telz. it iz ko:ld blu.mz- 
bury and is situated between the West End and the 
bari and iz sitjueitid bi'twi:n da west end and da 
City. It is an advantage for travellers to live at a 
siti. it iz an ad'va:ntid 3 fa Preevlaz ta liv at a 
hotel in this part of London, because they can get to 
hou'tel in dis pa:t av t And an, bi'koz dei kan get ta 
the big shops and the cinemas and theatres of the West 
da big fops and da sinimaz and piataz av da zvest 
End quickly, and they also have the advantage of being 
end kzvikli, and dei o:lsou heev di ad'va:ntid 3 av bi:iy 
able to get to the offices in the City easily. That was 
eibl ta get ta di ofisiz in da siti i:zili. deet waz 
why I chose this hotel the first time I came to London. 
hwai ai tjouz dis hou'tel da fa:st toim di keim ta l And an. 
I had to choose between several hotels, situated in 
di heed ta tju:z bi'twi.n sevral hou'telz, sitjueitid in 
to pass = to go 
past 
it is situated = 
its place is 
the City = the 
central part of 
London 
It is an advantage 
for you = it is 
better for you. 
theatre 
the advantage of 
being able = the 
advantage to be 
able 
He chooses, he 
chose, he has 
chosen [tfu:ziz, 
tjouz, tfouzn]. 
a good friend 
mine 
a good friend 
yours 
a good friend 
ours, etc. 
to reply = to 
answer 
I reply, 
he replies, 
he replied, 
but: replying. 
different parts of the town, and I thought this the best 
difrant pa:ts av da taun, dnd ai po:t dis da best 
of 
one to choose. A good friend of mine had recommended 
of wayi ta tfu:z. a gud frend av main had reka'mendid 
of it very much, and since then I have recommended it 
it veri niAtf, and sins den ai hav reka'mendid it 
myself to people who were going to England, as it is 
mat self ta pi: pi hu: zva: gouiy tu iy gland, az it iz 
a good hotel, and very cheap, too. In this way I have 
a gud hou'tel, and veri tji:p, tu:. in dis wei ai hav 
become good friends with the hotel-keeper. But here 
bi'kAm gud frendz mid da hou'telki:pa. bAt hia 
you see the hotel.” 
ju: si: da hou'tel” 
They went inside, and the hotel-keeper, who was sitting 
dei went 'in'said, and da hou'telki.pa , hu: waz sititj 
in his office, greeted Mr. Miller, saying, “Good evening, 
in hiz afis, gri:tid mist a mila, seiiy, “gud i:vnitj, 
Mr. Miller, I am glad to see you in London.” Then he 
mist a mila, ai am glced ta si: ju: in l And an” den hi: 
greeted the three young men with the words, “How 
gri.tid da pri: jAtj men mid da wa:dz, “hau- 
do you do, gentlemen, I am glad to see you, too.” 
dju'du:, dyntlman, ai am glced ta si: ju:, tu:” 
To Mr. Miller’s question about their rooms he replied, 
ta mista milaz kwestjan a'baut dea ru:mz hi: ri'plaid, 
“Your two rooms are ready, Mr. Miller, a single room 
“jo: tu: ru:mz a: redi, mista mila, a siygl ru:m 
The Thirtieth (30th) Chapter. 
for you, and a double room for your three friends. 
fa ju:, and a cIaM ru:m fd jo: pri: frendz. 
I have put an extra bed into the double room, as you 
av hdv put an ekstra bed intd dd d\bl ru:m, dz ju: 
asked me to.” To the three others he explained, 
a:skt mi: tu.” ta dd pri: \ddz hi: iks'pleind, 
“Mr. Miller wanted me to make it as cheap as possible, 
“mista mild wontid mi: td meik it az tfi:p az pasabl , 
and because we are good friends, I agreed to put you 
and bi'kaz zvi: a: gud frendz, ai a'gri:d ta put ju: 
all in a double room and then give you a cheaper price. 
j:I in a d\bl ru:rn and den giv ju: a tfi:pa prais. 
I have never agreed to do that before; therefore I must 
ai haz’ nevar a'gri:d ta du: dcet bi'fa:; deafo:r ai niASt 
ask you not to speak about it to other people.” 
a:sk ju: not ta spi:k a'baut it tu Ada pi:pi.” 
Mr. Miller: “We had better go to our rooms now to 
mist a mila: “zvi: had beta gou tu aua ru:mz nau ta 
wash, and then we should like to have something to eat. 
zvaf, and den zvi: jud laik ta hcev SAMpiy tu i:t. 
When is dinner?” 
hzven iz dinaf” 
Hotel-keeper: “Dinner is served between seven and 
hou'telki.pa: “dinar iz sa:vd bi'tzvi:n sevn and 
eight-thirty (8.30). While we are speaking of meals, 
l eit l pa:ti. hzvail zvi: a: spi:kirj av mi:lz, 
breakfast is served between eight and ten, and lunch 
brekfast iz sa:vd bi'tzvi:n eit and ten } and / am / 
single room = 
room for one per¬ 
son 
double room = 
room for two per¬ 
sons 
to agree to = to 
say ‘yes’ to 
is served from twelve to two. If you would like a cup 
iz so:vd from twelv td tn:. if ju: wud laik o kAp 
of tea early in the morning when you get up, you can 
dv ti: d:li in dd mo: my hwen ju: get a p, ju: kdn 
easily have one. But perhaps you do not want to 
i:zili hcev wxn. bxt po'hceps ju: du: not wont to 
get up early while you are here? What do you say, 
get Ap o:li hwail ju: a: hid? hwot du: ju: sei, 
gentlemen, do you want to get up early or late in the 
d^entlmon, du: ju: wont to get Ap o:li o: leit in do 
morning?” 
mo:niy?” 
Mr. Miller: “We want to see as much as possible while 
misto mild: “wi: wont to si: oz mxtf oz posdbl hwail 
we are here; therefore we shall get up early in the 
wi: a: hid: deofo: wi: fdl get Ap o:li in dd 
morning.” Hotel-keeper: “Then you can have an early 
mo:niy.” hou'telki:po: (C den ju: kdn hcev dn d:li 
cup of tea if you like. Many Englishmen like to have 
kAp dv ti: if ju: laik. meni iyglifman laik td hcev 
that.” Brown: “That would be a good i<Jea. We should 
dcet” braun: “dcet wud bi: d gud at did. wi: fud 
like to live as far as possible as the English do.” 
laik td liv dz fa:r dz posdbl dz di iyglif du:/’ 
Hotel-keeper: “All right, now I will call the porter and 
hou'telki.pd: “o:l rait, nau ai wil ko:l dd po:td dnd 
tell him to take your bags up to your rooms.” 
tel him td teik jo: bcegz a /> td jo: ru:mz.” 
The Thirtieth (30th) Chapter. 
They were glad to see that they had got a nice large 
dei wa: glad ta si: dat dei had gat a nais la:d$ 
double room with hot and cold running water. Wood: 
dAbl ru:m wid hot and kould rAniy wo:ta. wud: 
“Well, this is going to be our home for the next two 
“wel, dis iz gouiy ta bi: aua houm fa da nekst tu: 
weeks. It is nice here, isn’t it?” 
wi:ks. it iz nais hia, iznt it?” 
Storm: “Yes, and a nice hotel-keeper, too. I think it 
sto:m: “jes, and a nais hou'telki:pa, tu:. ai piyk it 
very nice of him to give us a cheaper price, because we 
veri nais av him ta giv as a tji:pa prais, bi'koz wi: 
are all three in one room, when he has never agreed 
a:r o:l pri: in zva n ru:m, hwen hi: haz nevar a'gri.d 
to that before*” 
ta dat bi'fo:.” 
Brown went to the window and was surprised when 
braun went ta da zvindou and waz sa'proizd hwen 
he looked out of it. “Well, one would not think this 
hi: lukt aut av it. “wel, WAn zvud not piyk dis 
was London. I thought that we should have had a 
waz lAndan. ai po:t dat zvi: fud hav had a 
view from our window of streets full of people, and 
vju: fram aua zvindou av stri. ts ful av pi:pi, and 
that there would be high buildings in all directions. 
dat dea wud bi: hai bildiyz in o:l di'rekfanz. 
Come and have a look at it.” Wood: “Yes, I must say 
kAm and hav a luk at it.” zvud: “jes, ai mAst sei 
When you work 
much, you get 
tired. 
When you have 
not slept for a 
long time, you get 
sleepy. 
this is very surprising. How beautiful the view is!” 
dis iz veri sa'praiziy. hau bju:tdful da vju: iz!” 
It is no wonder that the three friends were surprised 
it iz non WAndd dat da pri: frendz wa: sa'praizd 
at the view from their window. It was a garden with 
at da vju: fram dea windou. it waz a ga:dn void 
tall trees, and everything was so quiet that it was 
to:l tri:z, and evripiy waz sou kwaiat dat it waz 
difficult for them to understand that they were in 
difikalt fa dam tu And a'stand dat dei wa:r in 
London, the largest city in the world. 
I And an, da la:d$ist siti in da wa:ld. 
Brown: “I think we shall sleep well to-night. It is so 
braun : “ai pirjk wi: jal sli:p wel ta'nait. it iz sou 
quiet here, and I must say that I am a little tired after 
kwaiat hia, and ai niAst sei dat ai am a litl taiad a:fta 
having travelled all day.” 
hceviy travld a:l dei” 
Storm: “Yes, I am both tired and sleepy. Wouldn't it 
sta.rn: “jes, ai am boup taiad and sli:pi. wudnt it 
be a good idea to go to bed shortly after dinner, and 
hi: a gud ai'dia ta gou ta bed jo:tli a:fta dina, and 
then get up early to-morrow morning? I think Mr. Miller 
den get \p a:li ta'nurou mo:nigf ai piyk mista mild 
will agree with us in that.” 
wil a'gri: wid as in dcet” 
And he was right. An hour and a half later they were 
and hi: tvaz rait. an auar and a ha:f leita dei wa:r 
The Thirtieth (30th) Chapter. 
all in their beds, happy, but tired. 
o:l in bed beds, hcepi, b\t taidd. 
EXERCISE A. 
the three young men got? Yes, and they had a beauti¬ 
EXERCISE B. 
Why were they surprised at the view from their 
WORDS: 
pass 
situated 
advantage 
theatre 
choose 
chose 
chosen 
recommend 
hotel-keeper 
greet 
single 
double 
reply 
agree 
serve 
early 
nice 
surprise 
view 
tired 
therefore 
sleepy 
shortly 
Mr. Miller become good friends with the hotel-keeper? 
EXERCISE C. 
How to ask and answer questions with ‘who’, ‘whom’, 
‘whose’, or ‘which’. 
sister of Helen's mother is her aunt. Which is the oldest 
Mr. Miller is the cleverest at English of our four travel¬ 
The French live in France. Which of the girls in the 
The boy John fell through the ice. Whom did Mr. 
stockings on her birthday. Which of you will bring 
will give you a cigar. Whose house was situated in 
house was situated in the town. 
