Chapter Thirty-One (31). 
The Thirty-First* (31st) Chapter. 
SHOPPING IN LONDON 
The next morning when they were having their break¬ 
er nekst ma:niy hwen dei wa: haviy dea brek- 
fast, they discussed what to do on their first day. 
fast, dei dis'kASt hwat ta du: an dea fa:st dei. 
When they had discussed the question for some time, 
hwen dei had dis'kASt da kwestfan fa SAm taim, 
they agreed to take a long walk through the streets 
dei a'gri.d ta teik a lay wa:k pru: da stri:ts 
of the West End to look at the shops and perhaps go 
ai' da west end ta luk at da faps and pa'haps gou 
shopping themselves. They walked down Charing 
fapiy dam'selvs. dei wa:kt daun tfceriy 
Cross Road, a street which is well known for its many 
kras roud, a stri'.t hwitj is wel noun far its meni 
second-hand book-shops. 
sekandhcend buk fops. 
“You understand,” Mr. Miller explained to them, 
“ju: Anda' standmist a milar iks'pleind ta dam, 
“that you can only buy books second-hand in these 
(C dat ju: kan ounli bai buks 'sekand'hand in di:s 
book-shops. The books have already been bought once 
buk faps. da buks hav ail'redi bi:n ba:t waus 
and read by people, and then sold by them to these 
and red bai pi:pl f and den sould bai dam ta di:s 
to shop -- to go 
buying things in 
shops 
273 
Chapter Thirty-One (31). 
second-hand book-shops. People are only able to get 
sekandhand bukjaps . pi:pl a:r ounli eibl ta get 
pleased = glad 
special = great 
and important 
however = but 
a very low price when they sell second-hand books in 
3 veri lou prais hwen dei sel sekdndhcend buks in 
this way to a book-shop.” 
Sis wei tu d bukfap” 
They stopped to look at some of the books which had 
dei stapt td Ink at s\m av da buks hwitf had 
been put into large boxes outside the shops, and were 
bi:n put inta la:d 3 baksiz 1 aut'said da fops, and wa: 
pleased to find some in their own language. 
pli:zd ta faind saw in dear oun latjgzvid 3. 
The shops with foreign stamps, of which there are a 
da japs wid farin stamps , av hwitf dear a: a 
great number, were of special interest to Wood and 
greit nAmba, wa:r av spefal- intrist ta wud and 
Storm, who had collected stamps for several years. 
sta:in, hu: had ka'lektid stamps fa sevral jiaz. 
“When I started collecting stamps,” said Wood, “I had 
“hwen ai sta:tid ka'lektiy stampssed wud, “ai had 
at first a collection of about a hundred. Since then 
at fa:st a ka'lekjan av a'baut a hAndrad. sins den 
it has grown from year to year, and now I have a 
it haz groun fram jia ta jia, and nau ai hav a 
collection of about 8,000 stamps. However, I do 
ka'lekfan av a'baut eit pauzand stamps . hau'eva, ai du: 
not think it will grow very much during the next few 
nat piijk it zvil grou veri mAtj djuarig da nekst fju: 
274 
The Thirty-First (31st) Chapter. 
years, because I shall not have so much time to spend 
jiaz, bi'koz ai fal not hav sou mAtf taint td spend 
on it. During my first few years as a stamp collector, 
on it. djuariy mai fd:st fju: jiaz dz d stcemp ka'lekta, 
I spent a great part of my time looking at my old 
ai spent d greit pait dv mai taim Inkiij of mai ottld 
stamps and going to the stamp shops for new ones; 
stamps and gouty ta da stcemp fops fa nju: iv.vnz; 
and, therefore, my collection grew very rapidly. rapidly — quickly 
and, deafo:, mai ka'lekfan gru: veri rcrpidli. 
“At school, two of my schoolfellows and I were so 
({ at sku:l, tin av mai skuilfelouz and ai wa: sou 
interested in our foreign stamps that we almost forgot 
intristid in aua forin stamps dat wi: oilmoust fa'got 
our school work. In the afternoon we three school- 
oua skuil zvaik. in di 1 aifta'nmn wii prii skuil- 
fellows used to go to the shops near our homes to look He used to go = 
felottz jmst ta gou ta da fops niar aua houinz ta Ink he often went * 
at the latest foreign stamps and buy as many as we 
at da lei fist forin stamps and bai az meni az wii 
could afford. But now I cannot spend so much time 
kud a'fold. b\t nau ai kanot spend sou niAtf taim 
on my collection, although I am still a very interested 
on mai ka'lekfan, oil'dou ai am stil a veri intristid 
collector. I see they have the latest stamps from 
ka'lekta. ai sii dei hav da leitist stamps fram 
our country in this shop, but the prices are higher 
aua kAntri in dis fop , bAt da praisiz a: haia 
275 
Chapter Thirty-One (31). 
than at home.” 
dan at houm” 
left \riqht i 
When they had walked for some time, they came to 
hwen dei had wo.kt fa s\m taim, dei keim ta 
Shaftesbury Avenue, a road running both ways from 
fa:ftsbari cevinju:, a roud rAnirj boup weiz fram 
Charing Cross Road. Wood: “Shall we turn to the 
tfceritj kros roud. wud: “fal wi: ta:n ta da 
left here, down this street?” 
left hia, daun dis stri:tf” 
Mr. Miller: “No, I think we will turn to the right. 
mist a mila: (C nou, ai pirjk wi: mil ta:n ta da rait. 
Both the street on our left and the street on our right 
boup da stri:t on aua left and da stri:t on aua rait 
are parts of Shaftesbury Avenue. If we turn to the 
a: pa:ts av fa:ftsbari cevinju:. if wi: ta:n ta da 
left, we shall soon get back to the hotel again. There- 
left, wi: fal su:n get bcek ta da hou'tel a'gein. dea- 
fore we will turn to the right, which will take us to 
fo: wi: wil ta:n ta da rait, hwitf wil teik as ta 
Piccadilly = a 
street in the West 
End 
Piccadilly.” 
pika'dili.” 
consequently = 
therefore 
Consequently, they now turned to the right, down 
konsikwantli, dei nau ta:nd ta da rait, daun 
Shaftesbury Avenue. In this part of the town they 
fa:ftsbari cevinju:. in dis pa:t av da taun dei 
noticed that they passed cinema after cinema, and 
non fist dat dei pa:st sinima a:fta sinima, and 
276 
The Thirty-First (31st) Chapter. 
Mr. Miller told his pupils that this part of the town 
mista mile tould his pju:pls ddt dis pa:t dv dd taun 
is so full of cinemas and theatres that the Londoners 
is sou ful dv sinimds and pi at as dat da \\ndanas 
often call it theatre-land. 
a:fn ka:l it piatelmid. 
When they got to Piccadilly, they noticed one shop 
Jnven dei gat ta pika'dili, dei noutist wah jap 
after another with shirts, ties, socks, etc. They spent 
a:ftar a'nAda wid / a:ts, tais, seks, it'setra. dei spent 
a long time going from window to window, looking at 
a lay taint gouiy frein windou ta windou, lukiy at 
all the different articles. 
a:l da difrant a:tikis. 
Storm: “What nice things they have in these shops! 
sta:m: “hwat nais piys dei heev in di:s japs! 
Have you noticed that shirt over there, Brown; how 
hav ju: noutist dcrt fa:t ouva dee, braun; hau 
do you like it? I think I will go in and buy it.” 
du: ju: laik it? ai piyk ai wil gou in and bai it 
Mr. Miller: “No, you had better not, Storm. Money 
mista mile: cc nou, ju: had beta nat, sta:m. niAtii 
for buying shirts is not included in the fifteen pounds 
fa baiiy fa:ts is nat in'klu:did in da fifti.n pounds 
we are going to spend in England. These shirts, and 
wi: a: gouiy ta spend in iygland. di:s ja:ts, and 
a Londoner = a 
person living in 
London 
articles = things 
in a shop 
You had better not 
do it = it is better 
for you not to do 
it. 
all the other articles you see in the shops in Piccadilly, 
a:l di a dar a:tikis ju: si: in da japs in pika'dili , 
277 
Chapter Thirty-One (31). 
are very expensive.” 
a: veri iks'pensiv” 
Some time later Brown asked whether they were near 
s\m taim leitd braun a:skt hweda dei wa: ftia 
Bond Street, as, he said, he took a special interest in 
band striit, az, hi: sed, hi: tuk a spejal intrist in 
seeing that street. 
si:itj dcet stri:t. 
Mr. Miller: “Well, Bond Street was not included in 
mist a mila: “wel, band stri:t waz nat in'klu:did in 
our plans for to-day, but we can pass through it to 
ana plcenz fa ta'dei, b\t wi: kan pa:s pru: it tu 
Oxford Street.” 
aksfad stri:t” 
The three friends were surprised to see the shops in 
da pri: f rends wa: sa'praizd ta si: da faps in 
Bond Street. Many of them were tailors’ shops. Mr. 
band stri:t. meni av dam wa: teilaz faps. mist a 
Miller: “This is a street especially for men’s shopping. 
mila: “dis iz a stri:t is'pefali fa mens fapiy. 
The best tailors in London have their shops in this 
da best teilaz in L\ndan hcev dea faps in dis 
street. But you will notice that no prices are shown 
stri:t. b\t ju: wil noutis dat nou praisiz a: foun 
on the suits of clothes you see in the windows, and I 
an da sju:ts av klondz ju: si: in da windouz, and ai 
will tell you the reason. If you buy a suit of clothes at 
wil tel ju: da ri:zn. if ju: bai a sju:t av klouds at 
278 
The Thirty-First' (31st) Chapter. 
a tailor’s in Bond Street, you will have to pay him 
a teilaz in band stri:t, ju: wil hcev ta pei him 
about twenty guineas for it. Out of the twenty guineas 
a'baut twenti giniz fa:r it. aut av da twenti giniz 
ten, I think, will pay for the suit itself; the other ten 
ten, ai piyk, wil pei fd dd sju:t it'self; di Ada ten 
you pay for the name of ‘Bond Street’. You see that 
ju: pei fa da neim av c band stri:t\ ju: si: dat 
there are good reasons why you should not buy your 
dear a: gud ri:znz hwai ju: fud not bai jo: 
clothes here. However, you must not think that most 
kloudz hid. hau'eva, ju: m\st not piyk dat moust 
Londoners buy their clothes at a Bond Street tailor’s; 
L\ndanaz bai dea kloudz at a band stri:t teilaz; 
only people with lots of money go shopping here. But 
ounli pi:pl wid lots av m\ni gou fopiy hia. b\t 
now I will take you to Selfridge’s, one of the biggest 
nau ai wil teik ju: ta selfridyz, wah av da bigist 
shops in the world. They have lots of different articles 
Japs in da wa:ld. dei hcev lats av difrant a.tiklz 
there, so that people can buy everything from a pin 
dea , sou dat pi:pi kan bai evripiy fram a pin 
to an elephant, as the saying goes, and there you will 
tu an elifant, az da seiiy gouz, and dea ju: wil 
be able to get something for your money.” 
bi: eibl ta get s Amply fa ja: MAni.” 
Our four travellers spent an hour or two in Selfridge’s, 
aua fa: trcevlaz spent an auar a: tu: in selfrid^iz, 
a guinea = 21 
shillings 
a lot = a great 
many 
\pin 
as the saying goes 
= as people say 
etephont 
279 
Chapter Thirty-One (31). 
You see a person 
smile. 
You hear a person 
laugh. 
WORDS: 
discuss 
pleased 
stamp 
second-hand 
collect 
collection 
collector 
grow 
rapidly 
schoolfellow 
buying sticks, handkerchiefs, and cigarettes. When they 
baiirj stiks, hceykdtjifs, and sigdWets. hwen dei 
came out again, Wood said to Storm, “How do you like 
keim aut d'gcin, wud sed td sto:m , “hau du: ju: laik 
my new stick? With this in my right hand, I feel that 
max nju: stik? wid dis in mai rait hand, ai fi:l ddt 
I could walk to the end of the world.” He saw Mr. 
ai kud wo:k td di end dv dd wd:ld” hi: sj: mistd 
Miller smile, and then heard him laugh, saying: “I am 
mild small, dnd den hd:d him la:f, seiig: (( ai dm 
sure you could. However, I think we have bought 
fud ju: kud. hau'evd, ai piyk zvi: Juv l?j:t 
enough for to-day. Now let us go home through Oxford 
tn\f fd td'dei. nau let as gou houm pru: jksfdd 
Street; a cup of tea would do us good.” 
stri.t; d kAp dv ti: wud du: as gud” 
EXERCISE A. 
The first morning our four friends were in London 
they decided to go — in the West End. Charing Cross 
Road is well known for its many — book-shops and shops 
with foreign —. These shops were of great — to Storm 
and Wood, who were both stamp —. Wood’s first — of 
stamps was only small, but it has — from year to year to 
about 8,000 stamps, because he has — much time on it 
together with two of his old —. When they came to 
Shaftesbury Avenue, they — to the —. If they had — 
to the —, they would have got back to the hotel again. 
280 
The Thirty-First (31st) Chapter. 
Londoners often call the part of the town near Shaftes¬ 
bury Avenue —, because there are so many cinemas 
and — there. In Piccadilly they — that there were 
many men’s shops, and there were many of the different 
— in the windows that they would — to buy, but Mr. 
Miller told them that money for that was not — in 
their fifteen pounds. The — why they should not buy 
their clothes at a Bond Street — shop was that half 
of the price was for the name, Mr. Miller explained. 
It is only people with — of money who go shopping here. 
EXERCISE B. 
What did Mr. Miller and his pupils discuss the first 
morning in London? ... What did they agree to do? ... 
What, is a second-hand book-shop? ... Why were the 
stamp shops of special interest to Wood and Storm? ... 
What is theatre-land? ... Why did Mr. Miller tell Storm 
that he had better not buy the shirt he liked so well? 
... What shops do you especially find in Bond Street? ... 
What is the reason why prices are not shown in the Bond 
Street tailors’ windows? ... What people go shopping 
in Bond Street? ... What is Self ridge’s? ... What do 
people say about Selfridge’s?... 
EXERCISE C. 
How to ask and answer questions with ‘is, are, was, 
were, has, have, had 9 . 
Are you English? Answer ... Question ...? Yes, Mr. 
Miller is the teacher of the three young men. Has Mr. 
turn 
right 
left 
notice 
include 
tailor 
reason 
guinea 
lot 
pin 
elephant 
stick 
interest 
cross 
consequently 
article 
shop (verb) 
however 
special 
avenue 
Londoner 
saying 
laugh 
over 
book-shop 
281 
Chapter Thirty-One (31). 
Miller a son? Answer ... Question ...? No, the young 
men have no wives to think of. Was Mrs. Smith the only 
guest at Daisy’s birthday party? Answer ... Question 
...? No, Mrs. Miller and the boy were not with them 
in England. Had John a watch? Answer ... Question 
...? No, they had not enough money for the trip. Was 
Mrs. Miller ever in England? Answer ... Question ...? 
Yes, they were at Selfridge’s, a big shop where they 
bought several things. Has Mr. Miller had the young 
men as his pupils before? Answer ... Question ...? Yes, 
Mr. and Mrs. Miller have had rooms at the same hotel 
where the young men are now. Had Mr. Miller’s boy 
been at his grandparents’ home before? Answer ... 
Question ...? Yes, the young men had been at school 
together as boys. Had Mrs. Smith had her watch for 
a long time? Answer ... Question ...? Yes, they had 
had breakfast when they started on their shopping trip. 
282 
