Chapter Thirty-Two (32). 
The Thirty-Second (32nd) Chapter. 
A TRIP UP THE RIVER 
1 
fW 
The next day Mr. Miller proposed a trip up the river 
da nekst dei mista mite pra'pouzd a trip \p da viva 
palace 
Thames to Hampton Court Palace. “We can go down 
temz ta hcemtan ka: t pcelis. “wi: kan gou daun 
to Westminster Bridge,” he said, “and take the boat 
ta westminsta brid$” hi: sed, “and tcik da bout 
from there. Westminster Bridge is one of the many 
fram dea. westminsta brid$ iz wah av da meni 
boat i? 
bridges that go across the river and connect North 
bridyz dat gou a'kras da viva and ka'nekt na:p 
London with South London. We can go across the 
Ixndan wid saup tend an wi: kan gou a'kras da 
river to look at that part of the town some other day.” 
riva ta Ink at dcet pa:t av da taun saw Ada dei” 
When they got on board, they noticed a board on which 
hwen dei gat an ba:d , dei noutist a ba:d an hwitf 
were given the names of the different places where the 
wa: givn da neimz av da difrant pleisiz hwea da 
boat was going to. They walked across to read the 
bout waz gouiy tu. dei wa:kt a'kras ta ri:d da 
notice on the board, and Brown noticed that the boat 
noutis an da ba:d, and braun noutist dat da bout 
the notice = that 
which was written 
on the board 
was going to Oxford, the town in which the great 
ivaz gouiy tu aksfad, da taun in hwitf da greit 
Chapter Thirty-Two (32). 
English university is situated. 
irjglij juni'va:siti iz sitjueitid. 
Mr. Miller explained to them that there are thousands 
mista milar iks'pleind ta darn dat dear a: pausandz 
of students from all over the world who study at this 
av stju:dants fram o:l ouva da zva:ld hu: st\di at dis 
old university, and that they are taught by a great 
ould juni'va:siti , and dat dei a: to:t bai a greit 
many professors. After having read the notice, he 
meni pra'fesaz. a:fta Jueviy red da noutis, hi: 
said, “It seems that every day during the spring and 
sed , (( it si:ms dat evri dei djuariy da spriy and 
summer there is a boat to Oxford.” “It must be a 
s\ma dear is a bout tu oksfad” (( it mAst bi: a 
lovely trip up the river,” Wood said, “I propose that 
IavU trip a p da riva” wud sed, “ai pra'pouz dat 
we try the trip. It isn't very far to Oxford, is it?” 
wi: trai da trip. it iznt veri fa: tu oksfad, is it?” 
“No, it isn't far to Oxford; a train will take you there 
u non, it iznt fa: tu oksfad; a trein wil teik ju: dea 
a straight line 
a line with bends 
in an hour and a half, and yet by boat the trip takes 
in an auar and a ha:f, and jet bai bout da trip teiks 
two days. The train goes in an almost straight line, 
tu: deis. da trein gouz in an o:lmoust streit lain, 
while the river makes many bends, as most rivers do. 
hwail da riva meiks meni bends, as moust rivas du:. 
284 
Although London is connected with Oxford by the river, 
o:fdou l\ndan iz ka'nektid wid oksfad bed da riva, 
The Thirty-Second (32nd) Chapter. 
yet it is mostly tourists who make the trip to Oxford 
jet it is moustli tuarists hu: meik da trip tu oksfad 
mostly = most 
often 
by boat. The steamer goes so slowly that they have 
bat bout. do sti:mo gouz sou slouli dot dei hcev 
time to see everything, and at night the boat stops at 
taim ta si: evripiy, and at nait da bout stops at 
a town, and the tourists go ashore to sleep at a hotel.” 
a taun, and da tuarists gou a'fo: ta sli:p at a hou'tel” 
The first thing they noticed when the boat had started, 
da fa:st pirf dei noutist hwen da bout had sta:tid, 
A 
was a big palace on the right bank of the river. “What 
was a big pcelis on da rait bcerjk av da riva. C( hwot 
king 
palace is that?” asked Storm. “Does the King or 
pcelis is dcetf” a:skt sto:m. “d\s da kiy o: 
some other person of the royal family live there?” “No, 
s\m Ada pa:sn av da roial fcemili lir deaf 9 ’ i( nou, 
the royal family = 
the king’s family 
it is not used by the royal family. It is called Lambeth 
it is not ju:sd bai da roial fcemili. it is ko:ld Ice mb a p 
Palace.” 
pcelis 
A little farther up the river, just after a bend, they 
a litl fcr.dar Ap da riva, d^ASt a:ftar a bend, dei 
passed under Putney Bridge, and Mr. Miller told them 
pa:st a nda pAtni brid$, and rnista mila tould dam 
about the great boatrace which takes place every year 
a'baut da greit boutreis hwitf teiks pleis evri jia 
boatrrn 
between students from the universities of Oxford and 
bftwi:n stju.dants from da juniva:sitiz av oksfad and 
285 
Chapter Thirty-Two (32). 
Saxons = the 
name of some of 
the people who 
lived in England a 
thousand years ago 
Cambridge. The boats start at Putney Bridge and go 
keimbrid's. da bouts sta:t dt pAtni brid 3 and gou 
as far as Mortlake, which is about AV 2 miles 
az fair dz meitleik, hwitf iz e'baut fair and a half mailz 
farther up the river. The men in each boat do all they 
faidar a p da riva. da men in i:tj bout du: ail dei 
can to make their boat get there first. The young men 
keen ta meik dea bout get dea faist. da jAy men 
were very surprised to hear that the boatrace takes 
we: veri sa'praizd ta hia dat da boutreis teiks 
only about twenty minutes. 
ounli e'baut tzventi minits. 
Some time later they came to Kingston-on-Thames. 
SAm taint leita dei keim ta kiystan an temz. 
“It is a very old town, and as the name tells us, it has 
“it iz a veri ould taun, and az da neim telz as, it hcez 
something to do with kings; it means the king’s town. 
sAmply ta dm wid kiyz; it miinz da kiyz taun. 
About twelve hundred years ago, the old Saxon kings 
e'baut tweh' JiAndred jiez a'gou, di ould sceksn kiyz 
were crowned here,” Mr. Miller said to the young men. 
zva: kraund hia,” mist a mile sed ta da )Ay men. 
“Do you know where the English kings are crowned 
“dm jm non hwea di iyglif kiyz a: kraund 
nowadays?” he asked. “Oh, yes, we know that all 
nauedciz?” hi: a:skt. u ou, jes, zvi: nou deet oil 
right,” they all replied; “it is at Westminster Abbey. 
raitdei a:l ri'plaid; “it iz at Westminster cebi. 
286 
The Thirty-Second ‘(32nd) Chapter. 
The last time an English king was crowned there, we 
da la:st taim an iyglif kiy waz kraund dea , wi: 
read all about it in the newspapers, and from the many 
red a:l a'baut it in dd nju:speipdz , and fram da meni 
pictures that were taken we were able to see how it 
piktfaz dat wa: teikn wi: wa:r eibl ta si: hciu it 
was done. It was very interesting to see all the people 
was dAn. it waz veri intristiy ta si: a:l da pi:pi 
in their fine silk clothes, some of them with crowns 
in dea fain silk kloudz , saw, av dam wid kraunz 
upon their heads. One would think that they were 
a'pan dea hedz. WAn wud piyk dat dei wa: 
pictures from very old times, and not pictures of 
piktfaz fram veri ould taimz, and not piktjaz av 
something taking place in modern times.” 
s Amply teikiy pleis in mad an taimz” 
They had now got past Kingston. On their way up the 
dei had nau gat pa:st kiy star. an dea wei Ap da 
river they passed many small boats from which people 
riva dei pa:st meni sma:l bouts fram hiuitf pi:pl 
were fishing in the river, and on the banks of the river 
wa: fijiy in da riva, and an da bceyks av da riva 
they also saw many people fishing. Every time the 
dei a:lsou sa: meni pi: pi fifiy. evri taim da 
steamer passed one of the boats, the man in the boat 
sti:ma pa:st WAn av da bouts, da mcen in da bout 
looked up and shouted angry words at them. 
lukt Ap and fautid ceygri wa:dz cet dam. 
crown 
287 
Chapter Thirty-Two (32). 
one fish 
many fish 
two fish, or two 
fishes 
He catches, he 
caught, he has 
caught [kcetjis, 
kj:t, ko:t]. 
“Why are they so angry?” Wood asked. “I can see 
“hwai a: dei sou ceygri?” wud a:skt. “ai kon si: 
that you have never been fishing,” Brown said to him. 
ddt ju: hdv nevd bi:n fifty,” braun sed td him. 
“When a boat like this passes, all the fish go away, 
“hwen 3 bout laik dis pciisiz, o:l da fif gou a'wei, 
and then the men in the boats do not catch any fish. 
and den da men in da bouts du: not kcetf eni fif. 
— Do they catch many fish here?” he asked Mr. Miller. 
— du: dei kcetf meni fif hia?” hi: a:skt mist a mila. 
“No, I don’t think so; there are fish enough in the river, 
u nou, ai dount piyk sou; dear a: fif inAf in da riva, 
but there are too many boats passing up and down 
b\t dear a: tu: meni bouts pa:siy Ap and daun 
the river all the time. But I don’t understand why 
da riva o:l da taim. bAt ai dount Anda'stcend hwai 
they get so angry; they must know that there are 
dei get sou ceygri; dei mAst nou dat dear a: 
steamers going up and down the river all day, so that 
sti:maz gouiy Ap and daun da riva o:l dei . sou dat 
there is nothing to be so angry about. They had better 
dear iz nApiy ta hi: sou ceygri a'baut. dei had beta 
go to a quieter place to fish. I once did some fishing 
gou tu a kwaiata pleis ta fif. ai WAns did sAm fifiy 
here with a friend. We spent a whole day on the river, 
hia wid a frond, wi: spent a houl dei on da riva, 
and at the end of the day I had caught only one small 
and at di end av da dei ai had ko:t ounli WAn smo.l 
288 
The Thirty-Second {32nd) Chapter. 
fish, three inches long!” 
fij, pri: inf is lay!” 
They arrived at Hampton Court after a short time 
dei a'raivd at hcemtan ka:t a:ftdr a fa:t tairn 
and went up to look at the palace. It is situated very 
and went a p ta luk at da pcelis. it is sitjueitid veri 
beautifully in some gardens. They stood for a long 
bju:tafuli in s\m ga.dns. dei stud far a lay 
time looking at the lovely flowers, and especially at 
taim lukiy at da l\vli flauas, and is'pefali at 
a long straight walk with many beautiful flowers on 
a lay streit wa:k wid meni bju:taful flauas an 
both sides. In some parts of the palace people may 
boup saids. in sam pa:ts av ■ da pcelis pi:pi mei 
go in and look at the rooms and all that is in them. 
gou in and luk at da ru:ms and a:l dat is in dam. 
Everything is left just as it was hundreds of years ago. 
evripiy is left d$ASt as it was hAndrads av jias a 1 gou. 
Most of the things in the palace are connected with 
moust av da piys in da pcelis a: ka'nektid wid 
the Tudor and Stuart kings and queens, especially with 
da tju.’dar and stjuat kiys and kwi:ns, is'pefali zvid 
Queen Anne, the great Stuart queen of England. One 
kwi:n cen, da greit stjuat kwi:n av iygland. zvau 
of the things which interested them very much was 
av da piys hwitf intristid dam veri mAtf was 
Queen Anne’s bedroom. “You can see,” Wood said 
kwi:n cens bedrum. “ju: kan si:, 33 zvud sed 
£££}=•>«<*- 
mily names of 
several English 
kings and queens 
289 
Chapter Thirty-Two (32). 
bus 
to the others, “that women were the same then as 
ta di Adaz, “dat wimin zva: da seim den dz 
now,” and he showed them all the things that the 
nan” dnd hi: foud darn a:l da pirjz dat da 
Queen had used to make herself beautiful. 
kzvi:n had ju:zd ta meik ha:'self bju:taful. 
When it was time to go home, Mr. Miller proposed 
liwen it waz taim ta gou houm, mista mila pra'pouzd 
taking a bus straight back to London, as far as 
teikirj a 1)as streit bcek ta l\ndan , az fa:r az 
Wimbledon; From Wimbledon they could go by tram 
wimbldan. frain wimbldan dei kud gou bat trcem 
to Westminster Bridge. “If we go that way,” he said, 
ta westrninsta brid 3 . “if wi: gou dcet zvei,” hi: sed , 
“we shall be able to see much of South London from 
“zvi: fal bi: eibl ta si: mAtf av saup lAndan fram 
the windows.” They all thought this a good idea, and 
da zvindonz” dei o:l pa:t dis a gud ai'dia, and 
consequently they went back by bus and tram as Mr. 
konsikzvantli dei went bcek bai bAS and trcem az mista 
Miller proposed. 
mila pra'pouzd.. 
EXERCISE A. 
Mr. Miller — that they should go on a trip to Hampton 
Court —. They would go by boat from West¬ 
minster —. This bridge goes — the Thames and — 
290 
The Thirty-Second* (32nd) Chapter. 
North London with South London. The four travellers 
thought of going by — to Oxford, where the great 
English — is situated. At Oxford — there are many 
— to teach the students. Lambeth Palace is situated 
on the right — of the river. Kingston-on-Thames is 
a town where the Saxon — were — many years ago. 
Did Mr. Miller — many fish the day when he was out 
fishing? No, he only — one small fish. Who lived 
at Hampton Court — many years ago? — Anne 
lived there, and her — may still be seen in the palace. 
Did Mr. Miller — going home by boat? No, he — going 
home by —. 
EXERCISE B. 
How did the four travellers get to Hampton Court? ... 
Is it far from London to Oxford? ... Do most tourists 
go by train to Oxford? ... Where does the boatrace 
between the universities of Oxford and Cambridge start 
from? ... What is Kingston-on-Thames? ... Are the 
English kings crowned at Kingston nowadays? ... Why 
do the people fishing in the river get angry when 
steamers pass them? ... Do they catch many fish? ... 
Did Mr. Miller ever go fishing in the Thames? ... What 
did they see at Hampton Court Palace? ... 
EXERCISE C. 
How to ask and answer questions with ‘do* or ‘does*. 
Does Mr. Smith's brother live in town? Answer ... 
Question ...? No, Mr. Smith lives in town. Does 
WORDS: 
propose 
palace 
bridge 
across 
notice 
board 
boat 
university 
straight 
line 
tourist 
bank 
bend 
royal 
boatrace 
connect 
king 
queen 
crown 
crown (verb) 
abbey 
picture 
fish (verb) 
angry 
catch 
caught 
walk 
bus 
yet 
Saxon 
professor 
student 
way 
291 
Chapter Thirty-Two (32). 
John go to school every day? Answer ... Question ...? 
No, Mr. Smith does not go to town on Sundays. Do 
you have coffee for breakfast? Answer ... Question ...? 
Yes, I often have soup and meat for dinner. Does Helen 
swim as well as her brother? Answer ... Question ...? 
No, her father sings better than she does. Does it suit 
you to pay the money now? Answer ... Question ...? 
No, English does not seem difficult to me. Do any 
of the young men collect stamps? Answer ... Question 
...? Yes, tourists often take bus trips right through 
London. Do the English like tea better than coffee? 
Answer ... Question ...? Yes, the three young men get 
shorter holidays than their teacher. Do John and Helen 
stay in the house when it is cold? Answer ... Question 
...? Yes, John and Helen come when their father 
calls them. 
292 
