Chapter Thirty-Three (33). 
The Thirty-Third (33rd) Chapter. 
LONDON FROM WEST TO EAST 
Mr. Miller and his three young friends were having 
mistd mih dnd hiz pri: j\y jrendz u)d: hxviy 
breakfast at the hotel. 
brekfdst dt dd hou'tel . 
Wood: “We have now been here for several days, long 
wud: “wi hdu rum bi:n hid fd sevrdl deiz , by 
enough at least to have got an impression of London. 
in a / dt li:st id hdv got dn im'prefdn dv l\nddn. 
It seems, however, that there is no end to this big town. 
it si:mz , hauevd , dot dedr iznouend id dis big taun. 
It is very difficult to get a full impression of it.” 
it iz veri difikdlt id get d ful im'prefdn dv it .” 
Mr. Miller: “Yes, you are right. Everybody has that 
mistd mib: “jes, ju: a: rait. evribodi hxz dxt 
feeling the first time he is in London. I should like 
fidiy dd fo:st taim hi: iz in Unddn. ai fud laik 
to propose a trip which few tourists make. Let us go 
id prd'pouz d trip hwitf fju: tuorists meik . let as gou 
by Underground to the western part of London, and 
bai \ndograund td do westdn pad du lAndon , ond 
from there we will have a bus ride right through 
from ded vn: wil hxv d bAS raid rait pm: 
London from w r est to east. On this trip we can see 
lAnddn frdm west tu i:st. on dis trip wi: kon si: 
feeling = that 
which one feels 
western = which 
is to the west 
right (here) = 
straight 
9/1 
293 
Chapter Thirty-Three (33). 
suburbs = the 
parts of a town 
that are farthest 
away from the 
central part 
the western and the eastern suburbs of London/’ “I 
do westdn ond di i:stdn SAbo:bz ov lAndon” “ai 
think that is a very good idea,” said .Wood, and the 
piyk dset iz o veri gud aidio ,” sed wud grid di 
others agreed with him. 
a 5dZ ogri:d wid him. 
As soon as they had had their breakfast, they went 
9 Z su:n dz dei hdd hoed ded brekfdst , dei went 
by Underground to Ealing, a suburb in the west of 
bai Andograund tu i:liy t 9 SAbo:b in d9 west 90 
London with a great number of small houses. Having 
lAndon wid 9 greit nAmbor 9 V smo:l hauziz. hsevig 
arrived at Ealing, they got on a bus going to Barking 
9'raivd 9t i:lig y dei got on 9 b\s gouiy t9 ba:kiy 
in East London. After they had passed through the 
in i:st lAndon. a:ft 9 dei h 9 d pa:st pru: d 9 
western suburbs of London and got an impression of 
west9n SAbo:bz 90 lAndon 9nd got on im'prefon ov 
them, Brown said to the teacher, “Each suburb seems 
dom , braun sed to do ti:tfo, “i:tf s\bo:b si:mz 
to be much like a town, with a High Street or a High 
to bi: mAtf laik 9 taun , wid 9 hai stri:t o:r 9 hai 
Road where the biggest and best shops, the theatres, 
roud hweo do bigist ond best fops , do piotoz , 
and the cinemas are to be found.” 
ond do sinimoz a: to bi: faund” 
Storm: “I have noticed that some of the shops in the 
sto:m: “ai hov noutist dot SAm ov do fops in do 
294 
The Thirty-Third (33rd) Chapter: 
suburbs are just as big as those we have seen in the 
s\bd:bz a: d$Ast oz big oz douz wi: hdv si:n in do 
West End, and some of the cinemas are even bigger.” 
west end , dnd s\m ov dd sinimdz a:r i:von bigd." 
Wood: ‘'What long rows of small houses they have in 
wud: t( hwot log rouz dv smo:l hauziz dei heev in 
the suburbs!” Mr. Miller: “Yes, that is what the Lon- 
dd s\bd:bzr mistd mild: “ jes , diet iz hwot dd l\n- 
doners like. Instead of living in flats in big buildings 
ddndz laik. insted du liviy in fliets in big bildiyz 
in the centre of the town, they prefer to live in their 
in dd sentdr ov dd taun , dei pri'fo: id liv in dedr 
own houses in the suburbs. That’s why you see those 
oun hauziz in dd SAbo:bz. diets hwai ju: si: douz 
long rows of small houses, street upon street of them/' 
toy rouz ov smo:l hauziz , stri:t opon stri:t ov dom” 
Wood: “I do not wonder that the Londoners like small 
wud: lt aidu: not wxndo dot do txndonoz laik smo:l 
houses. I should also prefer a small house of my own 
hauziz. ai f ud o:lsou pri'fo:r o smo:l haus ov mai oun 
to a flat in a big building. Besides, they have their 
tu o flwt in o big bildiy. bi'saidz , dei hiev deor 
own gardens with trees and flowers.” 
oun ga:dnz wid tri:z ond flauoz” 
Now they began to get near*the centre of London; the 
nau dei bi'givn to gel nio do senior ov l\ndon; do 
bus went along Oxford Street, and before long they 
bAS went oloy oksfod stri:t f ond bi'jo: loy dei 
centre = central 
part 
street upon street 
= one street after 
another 
to prefer... to = 
to like ... better 
than 
9/2 
295 
Chapter Thirty-Three (33). 
were in the City. Mr. Miller: “Now we are in the 
wo:r in do siti. mistd mih: i( nau. wi: a:r in dd 
the middle = the 
centre 
middle of London.” Brown: “Then we have only 
midi 9V lAndon.” braun: “den wi: hdv ounli 
travelled half-way from west to east. It gives us a good 
traevld ha:fwei jrgm west tu i:st. it givz as d gud 
impression of how large London is.” 
im'prefdn dv hau la:d$ lAndon iz” 
Mr. Miller: “Yes, but look at the streets now. They are 
mistd mih: “ jes , b\t luk jt dd stri:ts nau . dei a: 
much narrower than in the suburbs. We are in the old 
mAtf nuerouo ddn in dd SAbd:bz. wi: a:r in di ould 
part of London. That building over there is the Bank 
pa:t dv lAnddn. duel bildiy ouvd ded iz dd baegk 
of England. It is the greatest bank in the country; a 
du iyghnd. it iz dd greitist beeyk in dd kAntri; d 
lot of money passes through it every year, but I think 
lot dv mAni pa:siz pm: it evri jid , bAt ai piyk 
you have already heard of the Bank of England many 
ju: hdv o:l'redi hd:d dv dd bueyk dv iyghnd meni 
times at home.” 
taimz dt houm” 
motor-car = car 
bicycle 
Storm: “What a lot of traffic there is here! There are 
slo:m: (i hwot d lot ov traefik deor iz hid! dedr a: 
large numbers of people, motor-cars, and buses, but I 
/a:dj nAmbdZ du pi:pl f moutoka:z , dnd bAsiz , bAt ai 
see very lew bicycles.” 
si: veri fju: baisiklz 
29G 
The Thirty-Third (33rd) Chapter. 
Wood: “Yes, the bus can hardly get through the traffic, 
wud: “jes , do b\s kdn ha:dli get pru: dg traefik , 
and it must be very difficult to ride a bicycle in all 
grid it m\st bi: veri difikalt tg raid g baisikl in o:l 
this traffic.” 
6 is traefik" 
Mr. Miller: “It is hardly ever possible to get through 
mistg milg: “it iz ha:dli evg posgbl tg get pru: 
the traffic here quickly. The Bank is one of the two 
dg traefik hig kwikli . dg baeyk iz w\n gv dg tu: 
places in London at which the traffic is greatest. All 
pleisiz in l\ndgn gt hwitf dg traefik iz greitist. o:l 
the buildings in the City are office buildings, and 
dd bildiyz in dg siti a:r ofis bildiyz, gnd 
hardly any one lives here, so that this part of the town 
ha:dli eni w\n livz hig , soil dgt dis pa:t gv dd taun 
is almost empty at night. In the evening, all who work 
izodmoust emti dt nait" in di i:vniy, o:l hu: wd:k 
in the City want to go home almost at the same time. 
in dd siti wont tg gou houm o:lmoust gt dd seim taim. 
Consequently, the streets are just full of people at 
konsikwantli , dd stri:ts a: dj\st ful of pi:pl dt 
that time.” 
daet taim." 
Brown: “I have noticed that there are no trams to be 
braun: “ai hdv noutist ddt degr a: nou traemz id bi: 
seen in the City.” 
si:n in dd siti" 
hardly = almost 
not 
the Bank = the 
Bank of England 
297 
Chapter Thirty-Three (33). 
neither in the City 
nor in the West 
End = not in the 
City and not in the 
West End 
no trams at all = 
not a single tram 
the very houses = 
even the houses 
Mr. Miller: "No, they are used neither in the City 
mistd mih: “nou, dei a: ju:zd naiddr in dd siti 
nor in the West End, and you can see for yourselves 
no.:r in do west end, ond ju: kdn si: fd jo:'selvz 
that in these narrow streets it would hardly be possible 
ddt in di:z naerou stri:ts it wud ha:dli bi: posdbl 
to have any trams at all. In four or five years, I 
td hiev eni triemz dt o:l. in fo:r o: faiv jhz, ai 
think, there will be no trams at all in London. They 
piyk, deo wit bi: nou triemz dt o:l in l\nddn. dei 
are neither very fast nor easy to drive. Instead, they 
a: naidd veri fa:st no:r i:zi td draiv. in'sted, dei 
will have either more buses or more Underground rail- 
wil huev aidd mo: b\siz o: mo:r \ndograund reil - 
ways. That is just the same as in Paris. ,, 
weiz. diet izd^Ast do seim oz in pieris” 
After leaving the City, they passed through the East 
a:fto li:vi?j do siti, dei pa:st pru: di i:st 
End, and Mr. Miller said, "Many poor people live in 
end, ond misto mild sed, “meni puo pi:pl liv in 
this part of the town. You can see from the very 
dis pa:t ov do taun. ju: kon si: from do veri 
houses that the people living in them must be poor, 
hauziz dot do pi:pl liviy in ddm m\st bi: puo, 
that is, they have very little money. ,, 
diet iz, dei hiev veri litl m\ni” 
Some time later, after passing through many other 
s\m taim leih, a:fh pa:sir) pru: meni a dd 
298 
The Thirty-Third (33rd) Chapter. 
parts of London, they arrived at Barking, a suburb in 
pa:ts ao /a ndan, dci a raiod at ba:kir), a s\ba:b in 
the east of London. They found that the suburbs of 
di i:sl 9V l\nddn. dci faund dal da s\ba:bz ao 
East London were just like those of West London; 
i:st l\ndan wa: d$\st laik douz ao west l\ndan; 
consequently, after a short time, they returned by 
to return = to go 
kansikioanlli , a:ftar a fo:t taim , dci ri'ta:nd bai 
back 
Underground to their hotel. 
a ndagraund ta dea hou'tcl. 
EXERCISE A. 
The three young men have got a good — of how large 
WORDS: 
London is. However, they have the — that they do 
impression 
not know the city yet. Mr. Miller — a trip from west 
western 
to — right — London. They went by — to one of the 
west 
— in the west of London. In each — there is a — 
eastern 
Street or High — where most of the big shops and the 
east 
— are to be —. 
ride 
The Londoner does not like to live in a —. He — his 
right 
own house. There are long — of such houses in the — 
suburb 
of London. In the City the streets are much — than in 
High Street 
the suburbs, and there is a lot of — in the streets. 
row 
There are many — to be seen in the streets of the City, 
flat 
but not many —. It is very difficult to — a bicycle 
prefer 
in all that —. It is — possible to get through the — 
centre 
quickly. There are no — in the narrow streets of the 
middle 
City, and in a few years there will be no trams- 
bank 
in London. 
traffic 
9/3 
299 
Chapter Thirty-Three (33). 
motor-car 
bicycle 
hardly 
any one 
neither . . . nor 
either ... or 
no ... at all 
poor 
return 
feeling 
very 
half-way 
EXERCISE B. 
Where did Mr. Miller and the three young men have 
their breakfast on the morning of the day when they 
went right through London by bus? . . . How did they 
start their trip? . . . What did they find that each 
suburb looked like? . . . What was there to be found in 
each suburb? . . . Why does the Londoner not like to 
live in a flat? . . . What are the streets like in the centre 
of London? ... Is it easy to ride on a bicycle in the 
streets of the City? . . . What people live in the East 
End of London? . . . Were the suburbs of East London 
different from those of West London? . . . V/hat did the 
four travellers do when they arrived at Barking? .. . 
EXERCISE C. 
How to ask and answer questions with did’. 
Did Brown go alone to the railway station when he 
left his home to travel to England? Answer . . . 
Question . . .? Yes, Wood’s sister went along with him 
to the station. Did the driver drive fast enough when 
going to the station? Answer . . . Question . . .? Yes, 
the others waited for him at the station. Did you think 
that there would be so much traffic in London that 
the buses could hardly get through? Answer . . . 
Question . . .? Yes, they noticed that the streets got 
narrower when they came back to the centre of Lon¬ 
don. Did they stop at any of the second-hand book¬ 
shops? Answer . .. Question . . .? No, they turned to the 
right when they came to Shaftesbury Avenue. Did 
the young men pay for their tickets themselves? 
300 
The Thirty-Third (33rd) Chapter. 
Answer . . . Question . . .? No, they did not buy any¬ 
thing in Bond Street. Did the four travellers visit any 
palaces on their trip up the river? Answer . . . Question 
. . .? Yes, they saw Lambeth Palace from the boat. 
Did they find the old town of Kingston very interesting? 
Answer . . . Question . . .? Yes, they saw many people 
fishing on the banks of the river. 
301 
