Chapter Thirty-Four (34). 
The Thirty-Fourth (34th) Chapter. 
park 
THE PARKS OF LONDON 
At lunch the next day, they discussed the buildings 
ot l\nf bo nekst dei , bei dis'k\st bd bildiyz 
they had seen in London. “We have now got an im- 
bei hdd si:n in Ixndon. “wi: hdv nail got on im¬ 
pression of the buildings of London, but we should also 
'prefon ov bo bildiyz ou l\ndon , b\t wi: fud o:lsou 
like to see its many fine and big parks,” said Wood. 
laik to si: its meni fain ond big pa:ks” sed wild. 
“We have often read about them in the newspapers. 
“wi: hov o:fn red o'baut bom in bo njwspeipoz , 
and sometimes we have seen pictures of them, too; 
ond s\mtaimz wi: hov si:n piktjoz ov bom , tu:; 
but a picture does not give a real impression of them, 1 
b\t o piktfo d\z not giv o riot im'prefon ov bom , ai 
think. One must see them in reality to get the right 
piyk. w\n m\st si: bom in ri'xliti to get bo rait 
impression.” “Yes,” answered Mr. Miller, “that would 
im'prefon. 11 “jes 11 a:nsod misto milo, “baet wild 
be a good idea for to-day’s trip. But you speak of the 
bi: o gud ai'dio fo todeiz trip. b\t ju: spi:k ov bo 
parks of London as if you could see them all in a day. 
pa:ks ov l\ndon oz if fu: kud si: bom o:l in o dei. 
You really can’t see more than one, or two at the most, 
ju: rioli ka:nt si: mo: bon w\n , o: tu: ot bo moust 9 
302 
The Thirty-Fourth (34th) Chapter. 
in one day. I propose that we go to Regent’s Park first. 
in w\n dei. ai propouz ddt wi: gou id ri:dpnts pa:k fd:st. 
From there we can go through Baker Street and Ox- 
frdm ded wi: kdn gou pru: beikd stri:t ond oks- 
ford Street to Hyde Park, and while we are on our 
fdd stri:t to haid pa:k 9 ond hwail wi: a:r on am 
way, we might stop and have some tea somewhere in 
wei , wi: mail stop ond hwv s\m ti: SAmhweor in 
Oxford Street.” 
oksfod stri:t .” 
They did as Mr. Miller proposed and took a bus to 
dei did oz misto milo propouzd ond tuk o b\s to 
Regent’s Park. In this park are the well-known Zoo- 
ri:dpnts pa:k. in dis pa:k a: do welnoun zu- 
logical Gardens of London. They went in to look at 
'lodjikol ga:dnz ov l\ndon. dei went in to luk ot 
the animals. Mr. Miller told the young men that Lon- 
di amimolz. misto milo tould do ]Ag men dot l\n- 
doners call the Zoological Gardens the ‘Zoo’, for short. 
donoz ko:l do zu'lodjikol ga:dnz do *zu:\ jo fo:t. 
They stood for a long time watching the monkeys play- 
dei stud for o log taim wotfig do m\gkiz plei - 
ing with each other. “They are so funny,” said Brown, 
ig wid i:tf a do. “dei a: sou f\ni sed braun, 
“that I could watch them for hours.” Suddenly, one of 
“dot ai kud wotf dom for auoz .” sxdnli , wau ov 
the monkeys put out his hand and took an umbrella 
do mAgkiz put aut hiz tuend ond tuk on a m'brelo 
somewhere = at 
some place or 
other 
for short = to 
make it shorter 
monkey 
suddenly = 
quickly and 
surprisingly 
Chapter Thirty-Four (34). 
near by = near 
from a little girl who was standing near by. The 
from o litl god hu: woz staendig nio bai. di 
umbrella was not open, but a few minutes later, the 
a m'brelo Wdz not oupon , b\t o fju: minits leito , do 
monkey had got it opened. It was so funny to see the 
m\gki hod got it oupond. it woz sou f\ni to si: do 
monkey running about with the umbrella that all the 
mxgki r\nig obaut wid di a m'brelo dot o:l do 
make 
as = when 
people who watched it had to laugh, except the little 
pi: pi hu: wot ft it hsed to la:f , ik'sept do litl 
girl. 
go:l 
They also went to see the snakes, which interested 
dei o:lsou went to si: do sneiks , hwitf intristid 
Wood very much, and after having seen the other 
wud veri m\tf 9 ond a:fto hveuig si:n di Ador 
animals, they left Regent’s Park and went to a restau- 
senimolz , dei left ri:dpnts pa:k ond went tu o resto- 
rant in Oxford Street for tea. “What a big place this 
ront in oksfod stri:t fo ti:. i( hwot o big pleis dis 
is!” the young men said as they entered the restau- 
izr do jAy men sed oz dei entod do resto- 
rant. “It is the largest we have ever seen. What is the 
ro:r). “it iz do la:d$ist wi: hov evo si:n. hwot iz do 
name of it?” “The Marble Arch Corner House,” Mr. 
neim ov it?” “do ma:bl a:tf ko:no haus” misto 
Miller answered. “Yes, it is a long name,” he said, 
milor a:nsod . “jes f it iz o log neim” hi: sed , 
304 
The Thirty-Fourth (34th) Chapter. 
laughing at the look of surprise on the young men’s 
la:fiy ot do luk ov sopraiz on do ]Ay menz 
faces. “I’ll explain it to you, while we are having our 
jeisiz . “ail iks'plein it to ju : 9 hwail wi: a: haeviy auo 
tea.” 
ti :. 99 
When the tea had been served, he explained, “This is 
hwen do ti: hod bi:n so:vd , hi: iks'pleind , “dis iz 
one of the many restaurants and tea-rooms which the 
w\n ov do meni restoro:yz ond ti:rumz hwitf do 
big firm of ‘Lyons’ has all over England. In London 
big fo:m ov ‘ laionz ’ haez o:l ouvor iyglond. in lAndon 
alone there are hundreds of them, and each one is 
o'loun deor a: hAndrodz ov dom 9 ond i:tf war iz 
called a ‘Lyons’. The very first big one was in a corner 
ko:ld o ( laionz\ do veri fo:st big war woz in o ko:no 
house, that is, a house built where two streets cross 
haus, daet iz 9 o haus bilt hweo tu: struts kros 
to cross = to go 
across 
each other. The restaurant was therefore called a 
i:tf Ado. do restoro:y woz deofo: ko:ld o 
Corner House, and now the four or five biggest ‘Lyons’ 
ko:no haus 9 ond nau do fo:r o: faiv bigist ' laionz ’ 
restaurants are called Comer houses, even if they are 
restoro'.yz a: ko:ld ko:no hauziz , i:von if dei a: 
not situated at corners. You will be surprised, perhaps, 
not sitjueitid ot ko.noz. ju: wil bi: sopraizd 9 po'haeps , 
corner 
to hear that one or two of the Corner Houses never 
to hio dot war o: tu: ov do ko:no hauziz nevo 
305 
Chapter Thirty-Four (34). 
to move = to take 
from one place to 
another 
nobody = no one 
close, but have rooms that are open day and night. 
klouz, b\t h 9 V ru:mz fat a:r oupgri dei md nait. 
Now you know what a ‘Comer House' is. This one 
nau ju: nou hwot 9 ‘ko:n 9 haus ’ iz. dis war 
is called the Marble Arch Corner House, because it is 
iz ko:ld 69 ma:bl a:tj kd:m haus , bi'koz it iz 
only one or two minutes from Marble Arch, a big 
ounli war 0: tu: minits \r9rn ma:bl a:tf, 9 big 
arch built of marble, situated j.ust outside the entrance 
a:tf bilt 9V ma:bl, sitjueitid dpst 'aut'said di enlr9ns 
to Hyde Park. Marble is a very expensive and beauti- 
t9 haid pa:k. ma:bl iz 9 veri iks'pensiv anrf bju:t9- 
ful stone, which is often shining and white. Marble 
ful 5 /own, hwitf iz o:fn fainiy 9nd hwait . ma:bl 
Arch was built for King George IV as an entrance 
a:tf u)9Z bilt f 9 kiy dp:d$ 69 fo:p 9Z on enir9ns 
to Buckingham Palace, but after it had been built, 
t9 bAkiyom ptelis, bAt a:\t 9 r it h9d bi:n bilt , 
they found that it was too narrow for the King’s 
dei faund d9t it u)9Z tu: merou \9 d9 kiyz 
carriage to pass through it. In 1851 it was moved 
kxrid$ t9 pa:s pru: it. in eiti:n fifti'wAn it W9Z mu:vd 
from Buckingham Palace to this corner of Hyde Park. It 
from bAkiyom peelis t9 dis ko:n9r 9V haid pa:k. it 
cost £ 80,000 to build. Now it just stands there, 
kosl eili pauz 9 nd paundz t 9 bild. nau it dpst stzendz de 9 > 
and nobody uses it; it is even closed, so that you can’t 
9nd noubodi ju:ziz it; it iz i:v9n klouzd , sou d9t ju: ka:nt 
306 
The Thirty-Fourth (34th) Chapter. 
get through it, but have to go round it. But the Lon- 
cjct pru: it, b\t hsev td gou raund it, b\t do l\n- 
doners like it, and tourists go to see it. There is always 
ddtidz laik it, dnd tudrists gou td si: it . dedr iz o:lwoz 
much traffic round Marble Arch, and at night when 
/n a// trxfik raund ma:bl a:tj, dnd dt nait hwen 
the lights are on, it is beautiful to look at. There are 
dd laits a:r on, it iz bju:tdful td luk set, dedr a: 
always people standing round it, selling different 
o:lu)dZ pi:pl stsendig raund it, selig difrdnt 
things: newspapers, fruit, chocolate, etc. It has really 
pigz: nju:speipoz, fru:t, tfokdlit, itsetro, it hdz ridli 
become part of London, a part which the Londoners 
bi'k\m pa:t dv l\ndon, d pa:t hwitf dd Ixndonoz 
like very much. But if you have finished your tea, 
laik veri m\tj. b\t if ju: hdv finift jo: ti:, 
we might walk round it before entering the Park, so 
wi: mait wo:k raund it bi'fo:r entoriy do pa:k, sou 
that you may see it from all sides. I will pay the bill 
dot ju: mei si: it from o:l saidz. ai wit pei do bit 
while you finish your bread and butter, Wood. You 
hwail ju: finif jo: bred ond bxto, wud. ju: 
seem to eat a lot,” the teacher said, laughing, “be- 
si:m tu i:t o lot,” do ti:tfo sed, la:fig, “bi - 
cause you are always the last of us to finish.” 
koz ju: a:r o:lwoz do la:st ov as to finif ” 
They crossed Oxford Street and entered the Park, and 
dei krost oksfod stri:t ond entod do pa:k, ond 
the lights are on 
= the lights are 
shining 
307 
Chapter Thirty-Four (34). 
just inside they found a lot of people standing round 
d$Ast 'irisaid dei faund a lot 9V pi:pl staendiy raund 
a speaker who had got up on a soap-box to speak. 
9 spi:k9 hu: h9d gat a p on 9 soupboks ta spi:k. 
They listened to him and tried to understand what he 
dei lisnd ta him and . traid tu a nda'staend hwot hi: 
was saying, but could hear very little. “This is a thing 
waz seiiy , b\t kud hia veri litl. “dis iz a pig 
which you will find in many places in England,” said 
hwitf ju: wil faind in meni pleisiz in iyglandsed 
Mr. Miller. “If a man wants to speak about something, 
mista mila. “if a maen wonts ta spi:k a'baut SAmpiy , 
he can bring a box to stand on and say what he likes. 
hi: kan briy a boks ta staend on and sei hwot hi: laiks. 
Nobody will stop him, and there will always be some 
noubodi wil stop him , and dea wil o:lwaz bi: SAm 
one out walking who stops on his way to listen to his 
WAn aut wo:kiy hu: stops on hiz wei ta lisn ta hiz 
talk or laugh at him.” 
to:k 0 : la:f at him.” 
On their way through the Park they came to the 
on dea wei pru: da pa:k dei keim ta da 
Serpentine, a long lake which looks like a snake or a 
sa:pantain , a lay leik hwitf Inks laik a sneik o:r a 
serpent = snake 
serpent, and in which people may bathe. “In the 
sa:pant , and in hwitf pi'pl rnei beid . “in di 
evenings in summer,” Mr. Miller told them, “there 
i.vniyz in SAma,” mista mila tould dam , “dear 
308 
The Thirty-Fourth (34th) Chapter. 
are bands or orchestras playing in the Park, and there 
a: btendz o:r o:kistrdZ pleiiy in bo pa:k 9 dnd beor 
are always many people who come to listen to them. 
a:r o:\wdz meni pi:pl hu: k\m Id lisn id bdm. 
But we cannot stop to-night; perhaps we can come 
b\t wi: kxnot stop td'nait; po'hxps wi: kdn k\m 
this way some other evening and hear one of the bands 
bis wei sxm AbdT i:vni?j dnd hid wxn dv bd bxndz 
play. Look!” he said suddenly and stopped them. “Now 
plei. lukr hi: sed sxdnli ond stopt bdm. (t nau 
I will show you something funny, which I think will 
ai wil Jou ju: sxmpiy fxni , hwitf ai pigk wit 
surprise you.” They looked and saw — a flock of 
sopraiz ju:” bei lukl dnd so: — o flok ov 
sheep! “Is this really a flock of sheep in the centre 
fi:p! “iz bis rioli o flok ov fi:p in bo senior 
of London?” they shouted in surprise. “Yes, sheep,” 
ov Ixndon?” bei fautid in sopraiz. il jes 9 fi:p” 
their teacher replied, “real sheep! They move about 
bed ti-'tfo riplaid , “riol Ji:p! bei mu:v obaut 
the Park to eat the grass, so that it does not get too 
bo pa:k tu i:t bo gra:s 9 sou bot it dxz not get tu: 
long.” 
log” 
They finished their walk through the Park at Hyde 
bei jinift bed wo:k pm: bo pa:k ot haid 
Park Corner, and Mr. Miller told them that it is the 
pa:k ko:no 9 ond misto milo tould bom bot it iz bo 
orchestra 
309 
Chapter Thirty-Four (34). 
place which has the most traffic in the whole world. 
pleis hwitj hxz do moust trsefik in do houl wo:ld. 
It was not difficult for them to understand this, be- 
it wdz not difikolt fo dom lu a ndostxnd Sis , bi¬ 
cause it was several minutes before they were able to 
'koz it woz sevrol minits bi'fo: dei wo:r eibl to 
cross to the other side of the street. 
kros to di \do said ov do stri:t. 
WORDS: 
park 
real 
reality 
really 
Zoological 
Gardens 
Zoo 
monkey 
funny 
suddenly 
umbrella 
open 
open (verb) 
as 
corner 
marble 
arch 
entrance 
round 
speaker 
EXERCISE A. 
Mr. Miller proposed that their next trip should be to 
some of the great — of London. They had often seen 
pictures of them at home, but they wanted to see them 
in — to get a — impression of them. In Regent’s Park 
are the — Gardens of London, which the Londoners 
call the —. In the Zoo they — a — playing with an 
— which it had taken from a little girl standing 
near by. All the people watching it had to —, except 
the girl. She did not think it —. The big * Lyons’ 
restaurants are called — Houses, even if they are not 
situated at —. Marble Arch was first built as an — 
to Buckingham Palace, but as it was too narrow for 
the King’s —, they — it to this corner of Hyde Park. 
It is not used as an entrance here, but there is much 
traffic — it. Mr. Miller thought that Wood ate a —, 
because he was always the last of them to —. In Hyde 
Park they saw a — standing on a soap-box. There 
were many people there listening to what he was —. 
In the Park there is a long lake called the —, because 
it looks like a snake or —. While they were walking 
310 
The Thirty-Fourth (34th) Chapter. 
in the Park, Mr. Miller — stopped them and showed 
them a — of sheep. 
EXERCISE B. 
What did they decide to see the day after they had 
been out to see the buildings of London? . . . Where 
had they got their first impression of the parks of 
London? . . . What is the Zoo? . . . Why did the people 
who were watching the monkeys laugh? . . . Why was 
the restaurant called a Corner House? . . . Where was 
Marble Arch first built? . . . Why was it moved? . . . 
Why were people standing round the man on the soap¬ 
box in Hyde Park? . . . Why is the lake in Hyde Park 
called the Serpentine? . . . What can you hear on sum¬ 
mer evenings in the Park? . . . What did the young 
men see in the Park, which surprised them very 
much? . . . 
EXERCISE C. 
How to ask and answer questions with 'has, have, 
or had’. 
Has Mr. Miller seen other countries than England? 
Answer . . . Question . . .? Yes, many things have 
changed since Mr. Miller was in England some years 
ago. Has Wood collected stamps for a long time? 
Answer . . . Question . . .? No, the young men have 
never visited England before. Have they all travelled 
by steamer before this trip? Answer . . . Question . . .? 
No, Mrs. Miller has not come along with them on the 
trip. Has Storm spent his holidays in town? Answer . . . 
Question . . .? No, they have not seen everything they 
want to see in London yet. Had they dined before 
snake 
serpent 
orchestra 
band 
play 
flock 
move 
listen 
nobody 
some one 
surprise 
for short 
somewhere 
stone 
cross (verb) 
eighty 
bathe 
look 
tea-room 
311 
Chapter Thirty-Four (34). 
they got on board the steamer? Answer . . . Question 
. . . ? Yes, every evening when they were together be¬ 
fore the trip, they had talked about the things they 
were going to see in England. Had Mr. Miller found a 
good hotel for them in London? Answer . . . Question 
...? Yes, Storm's firm had paid the whole trip for him. 
Had they planned to buy many things in London? 
Answer . . . Question .. .? No, they had not been able 
to understand the language which the porters spoke. 
Had they brought much luggage with them to Eng¬ 
land? Answer .. . Question . . .? No, they had carried 
their own bags. 
312 
