Chapter Thirty-Five (35). 
The Thirty-Fifth (35th) Chapter. 
PARLIAMENT 
One morning the hotel-keeper came in to have a 
w\n mo:niy ba hou'telki:pd keim in ta hivv a 
word with our four travellers. “I hope you are enjoying 
wa:d wib ana fo: trxvlaz. “ai houp ju: a:r in'dpiuj 
yourselves in London,” he said. 
jo:'selvz in l\ndan ” hi: sed. 
Mr. Miller: "We are having a lovely time, thank 
mista mila: “wi: a: hxviy a IavU taim , pxyk 
you.” Wood: "Yes, we have enjoyed ourselves very 
wud: “jes , wi: hav in'dpid auaselvz veri 
much all the time we have been here, and we have 
m\tf o:l ba taim wi: hav bi:n hia y and wi: hav 
seen a lot of things. Now we wish to see the King 
si:n a lot av piyz . nau wi: wif ta si: ba kiy 
and the Queen, but how is that done?” 
and ba kwi:n , b\t hau iz bxt d\n?” 
Hotel-keeper: "That will be very difficult just now, 
hou'telki:pa: “bxt wil bi: veri difikalt dpst nau , 
because the King and the Queen are spending part of 
bi'koz ba kiy and ba kwi:n a: spendiy pa:t av 
the summer at Balmoral Castle in Scotland, a castle 
ba SAmar at bxl'moral ka:sl in skotland, a ka:sl 
situated in a very beautiful part of the country, where 
sitjueitid in a veri bju:taful pa:t av ba kAntri , hwea 
I am enjoying 
myself = I am 
having a good 
time. 
to wish — to want 
castle 
313 
Chapter Thirty-Five (35). 
He draws, he 
drew, he has 
drawn [ dro:z , dru:, 
dn:n ]. 
uniform 
nothing else = no 
other thing 
nearly = almost 
the King and Queen spend some of their time every 
bo kiy ond kwi:n spend s\m ov bed taim evri 
year. Many travellers who come to England wish to 
jio. mtni trwvloz hu: k\m tu iyglond wif to 
see the King and Queen. 
si: bd kiy dnd kwi:n. 
“Speaking for myself, I have never seen the present 
“ spi:kiy jd mai'self, ai hdv nevd si:n bd preznt 
King; the only time I have seen a king was when 1 
kiy; bi ounli taim ai hdv si:n d kiy wdz hwen ai 
went to see George V, who was the father of our 
went id si: dp:d$ bd fijp , hu: Wdz bd fa:bdr dV aud 
present King, George VI. The real reason why I went 
preznt kiy, dp:d$ bo siksp. bd ridl ri:zn hwai ai went 
was not so much to see the King himself as to see the 
Wdz not sou m\tf td si: bd kiy him self oz td si: bo 
horses which drew his carriage, and also the many 
ho:siz hwitf dru: hiz kwrid j, ond odsou bo meni 
men in uniforms. His carriage was drawn by eight 
men in ju:nijo:mz . hiz kivrid$ woz dro:n bai eit 
horses, and after it came a long row of men in fine 
ho:siz , ond a:ftor it kcim o toy rou ov men in fain 
uniforms. I know that people say that the English 
ju:nifo:mz . ai nou bot pi:pl sei boi bi iyglif 
are very interested in the King and Queen and speak 
a: veri intristid in bd kiy ond kwi:n ond spi:k 
of nothing else. But nearly every week when I look 
ov nspiy els. b\t nioli evri wi:k hwen ai luk 
314 
The Thirty-Fifth (35th) Chapter. 
at the pictures in foreign papers, I notice that people 
dt dd piktfdz in forin peipdz , ai noutis ddt pi:pi 
everywhere go to see the different kings and queens, 
evrihwed gou Id si: dd difrdnt kigz dnd kwi:nz , 
everywhere = at 
all places 
and if a country has no king, then I see pictures of 
dnd if d k\ntri haez nou kig , den ai si: piktfaz dv 
people that go to see the president. So I think that 
pi:pl ddt gou id si: dd preziddnt. sou ai pigk ddt 
people in other countries are just as interested in these 
pi:pl in a dd kxntriz a: d^Astaz intristid in di:z 
things as we English are. You only have to think of 
pigz dz wi: iyglif «*• ju: ounli hcev td pigk dv 
the King's visit to President Roosevelt of the United 
dd kigz vizit td preziddnt rouzdvelt dv daju:'naitid 
States in the spring of 1939.” 
steits in dd sprig dv naintim po:ti'nain” 
Although the King and Queen were not staying in 
o:ldou dd kig dnd kwi:n wd: not steiig in 
London, our four friends went to look at Buckingham 
lAnddn, aud fo: frendz went td luk ot bAkiyam 
Palace. Mr. Miller: “As you see, it is built of grey 
paelis. mistd mild: “dz ju: si:, it iz bilt dv grei 
stone. How do you like it?” Wood: “Well, I don’t 
stoun. hau du: ju: laik it?” wud: (t wel , ai dount 
think there is anything unusual about it. It looks like 
pigk dedr iz enipiy' Ariju:$udl d'baut if. it luks laik 
all other palaces.” 
o:l Add pselisiz” 
315 
Chapter Thirty-Five (35). 
Storm: “I have heard so much about Buckingham 
sto:m: “ai hav ha:d sou m\tj abaut b\kiyam 
Palace that I thought that the place where the King 
pvelis ddt ai po:t dot da pleis hwed da kiy 
and Queen of England lived must be a very unusual 
ond kwi:n av irjghnd livd mAst bi: d veri \riju:$udl 
building, but I like many of our palaces at home 
bildiy, b\t ai laik meni dv aud pxlisiz dt houm 
better.” 
beta.” 
From Buckingham Palace they walked through a park 
fram b\kiyam paelis dei wo:kt pru: a pa:k 
to the Houses of Parliament. Mr. Miller: “Here you 
ta da hauziz au padamant. mista mila: “hia ju: 
see the building where Parliament, that is, the men 
si: da bildiy hwea padamant , daet iz } da men 
who are chosen by the people to decide what is best 
hu: a: tfouzn bai da pi:pl ta di'said hwot iz best 
for the country, comes together. Altogether there are 
fa da kxntri, k\mz ta'geda. odtageda dear a: 
between 1300 and 1400 people who 
bi'twi:n pa:ti:n hxndrad and ja:'ti:n hxndrad pi:pl hu: 
sit in Parliament, or are members of the two Houses 
sit in padamant, o:r a: membaz au da tu: hauziz 
of Parliament. Of these members, 640 
av padamant. au di:z . membaz, siks h\ndrad and fodi 
are chosen by the people; they make up one of the 
a: tfouzn bai da pi:pl; dei meik a p w\n au da 
316 
The Thirty-Fifth (35th) Chapter. 
two parts of Parliament and are called the House of 
tu: pa:ts gv pa:lgmgnt gnd a: ko:ld dg ham dv 
Commons. The other part, the House of Lords, has 
komdnz. di Add pa:t , dg haus dv h:dz 9 hxz 
about 750 members, made up of men 
gbaut sevn hxndrdd grid fifti memhdz , meid a p gv men 
who are the heads of either very old or very rich 
hu: a: dd hedz gv aidg veri ould o: veri ritf 
families. Since old times such men have had the right 
fsemiliz. sins ould taimz s\tj men hgv heed dg rait 
to be members of the House of Lords. The two Houses 
tg hi: membgz gv dg haus gv lo:dz. dg tu: hauziz 
together make up Parliament. The British Parliament 
tggedg meik a p pa:lgmgnt. dg britif pa:lgmgnt 
is the oldest in the world. It is so old that nobody 
iz di ouldist in dg wg:ld. it iz sou ould dgt noubodi 
really knows when it first started.” 
rigli nouz hwen it fg:st sta:tid yy 
Storm: “The building where Parliament sits is a very 
sto:m: “dg bildiy hweg pa:lgmgnt sits iz g veri 
old one, too, isn’t it?” Mr. Miller: “No, most people think 
ouldwAn,tu: f iznt it? yy mistg milg: “nou,moust pi:pl piyk 
that the building must be very old; but it is only 
dgt dg bildiy m\st bi: veri ould; b\t it iz ounli 
about a hundred years old. It was built from 1840 
gbaut g hAndrgd jigz ould . it wgz bilt frgm eiti:n jo:ti 
to 1852.” As it was Saturday, they were allowed 
tueitim fifti'tu:” gz it wgz soetgdi , dei wg:r g'laud 
head (here) = 
most important 
person 
317 
Chapter Thirty-Five (35). 
■hall 
does not matter = 
is not important 
one third = % 
one half = % 
usually = most 
often 
to go in and look at the whole building, including the 
to gou in ond Iur dt do houl bildiy , in'klu:diy do 
hall where the House of Commons comes together. 
hod hweo do haus ov komonz k\mz togedo. 
“It is the only day that people are allowed to go almost 
“it iz di ounli dei dot pi:pl a:r o'laud togouodmoust 
everywhere inside/’ Mr. Miller explained; “on all 
evrihweo 'irisaid” misto milo iks'pleind; “on od 
other days they do not allow people to go round every- 
a do deiz dei du: not o'lau pi:pl to gou raund euri - 
where.” Storm, Wood, and Brown were very surprised 
hweo. 1 * sto:m, wud, ond braun wo: veri sopraizd 
at the smallness of some of the rooms. They first went 
ol do smodnis ov s\m ov do ru:mz. dei jo:st went 
to the House of Lords. Brown: “This place looks very 
to do haus ov lo:dz. braun: “dis pleis luks veri 
small. There cannot be room for 750 
smod. deo kamot bi: m:m jo sevn h\ndrod ond fijti 
people here.” 
pi:pl hio 11 
Mr. Miller, laughing: “That does not matter, because 
misto milo, la:fiy: “dxt d\z not mceto, bi'koz 
it would be very unusual if more than one third or 
it wud bi: veri \riju:$uol if mo: don w\n po:d o: 
one half of the members were present at the same 
w\n ha:f ov do memboz wo: preznt ot do seim 
time. Usually, only about one hundred of the mem- 
taim. ju:$uoli, ounli obaut w\n h\ndrod ov do mem- 
318 
The Thirty-Fifth (35th) Chapter. 
bers are present, so you see it does not matter much 
boz a: preznt , sou ju: si: it d\z not mreto m\tf 
that the room is small. I must tell you, however, that 
dot do ru:m iz smo:l. ai m\st tel ju:, hau'cvo, dot 
after the Germans were over London between 1940 
a:fto do dp:monz wo:r ouvo Ixndon bVtwi:n nainli:n jo:ti 
and 1945, many buildings, including the 
ond naintim fodi'faiv, meni bildiyz, in'klu:di?j do 
House of Commons, cannot be used. At the present 
haus ov komonz, kivnot bi: ju:zd. ot do preznt 
time this hall is used by the members of the House of 
taim dis hod iz ju:zd bai do memboz ov do haus ov 
Commons. The members of the House of Lords come 
komonz. do memboz ov do haus ov lo:dz k\m 
together in another hall. We will now go and look at 
to'gcdor in o'nxdo hod. wi: wit nau gou ond luk ot 
the place where the House of Commons was situated.” 
do plcis hweo do haus ov komonz woz sitjueitid.” 
When they got there, Mr. Miller continued to explain, 
hwen dei got deo, misto milo kon'tinju:d tu iks'plein, 
“You see that this room was also very small. It was 
*‘ju: si: dot dis ru:m woz odsou veri smod. it woz 
impossible for all the members to find seats here at the 
im posobl for od do memboz to jaind sids hio ot do 
same time, so that when anything unusual was to be 
seim taim , sou dot hwen enipiij a riju. juol woz to bi: 
discussed, and all the members wished to be present, 
dis'kAst, ond od do memboz wift to bi: preznt , 
319 
Chapter Thirty-Five (35). 
flag 
a Norman = a 
man from Nor¬ 
mandy (the north¬ 
western part of 
France) 
a member had to come very early to get a seat.” When 
a membd hied ta k\m veri a:li ta get a si:t” hwen 
they came out again, the teacher pointed with his 
dei keim aul a'gein , da Hdja pointid wid hiz 
stick to one of the towers of the Houses of Parliament, 
stik la w\n av da tauaz av da hauziz au padamant , 
saying, “If Parliament is sitting, that is, if the members 
seih ?, “if padamant iz sitiy , diet iz , if da membaz 
are present in the building, a flag is to be seen at the 
a: preznt in da bildiy, a flieg iz ta bi: si:n at da 
top of that tower.” A little later he continued, “Now 
top av diet tana” a Utl leita hi: kan'tinjw.d , “nan 
we will go to another building which I wish to show 
wi: wit gon tn o'n\da bildiy hwitf ai wij ta fon 
you to-day; it is the Tower, a very old castle situated 
jn: ia'dei; it iz da tana, a veri onld ka:sl sitjneitid 
in the central part of London. They went to have 
in da sentral pad av l\ndan” dei went ta hiev 
a look at it, and on the way Mr. Miller continued to 
a Ink at it , and on da wei mista mila kan'tinju:d tn 
explain, “The Tower was built by William the Con- 
iks'plein , “da tana waz bilt bai wiljam da ko?j- 
queror, a Norman who became King of England, ana 
kara , a no:man hu: bi'keim kiy av iygland , and 
it is nearly 900 years old. After the time of 
it iz niali nain hxndrad jiaz onld. a:fta da taim av 
William the Conqueror, the English kings continued 
wiljam da koykara , di iyglif kiyz kan'tinjn:d 
320 
The Thirty-Fifth (35th) Chapter. 
to live there for many years. Then they built other 
ta liv dea fa meni jiaz. den dei bilt Ada 
castles to live in, and now the Tower has not been 
ka:slz to liv in, and nan da taua haz not bi:n 
used by any king for hundreds of years. It has got its 
ju:zd bai eni kiy fa h\ndradz av jiaz. it haz got its 
name from one of the towers of the building that is 
neim from w\n av da tauaz av da bildirj dot iz 
called ‘the White Tower’/’ 
ko:ld l da hwait taua 
EXERCISE A. 
The hotel-keeper asked the travellers if they had — WORDS: 
themselves in London. The King and Queen had gone enjoy 
to Balmoral — in Scotland. In the United States they wish 
have no king, but a —. The Tower is — 900 years old. castle 
After the time of William the Conqueror the English present 
kings — to live there for many years. Buckingham draw 
Palace is built of grey —. The two parts of Parlia- drew 
ment are called the House of — and the House of —. drawn 
The House of Commons has 640 — Were our uniform 
travellers — to go inside the Houses of Parliament? else 
Yes, they were allowed to go almost —, because it everywhere 
was Saturday. How many members of the House of president 
Lords are usually — at a time? — there are only visit 
about one hundred of the members present. Was it usually 
possible for all 640 — of the House of Commons unusual 
to find seats at a time? No, if they — to find — they Parliament 
had to come very early. member 
321 
Chapter Thirty Five (35). 
House of 
Commons 
House of Lords 
right 
allow 
smallness 
matter 
point 
third 
half 
tower 
flag 
continue 
nearly 
United States 
altogether 
make up 
hall 
Conqueror 
EXERCISE B. 
Why was it not possible to see the King and Queen? . . . 
What was the real reason why the hotel-keeper went 
to see the King? ... Do they have a king in the United 
States? . . . What is Buckingham Palace built of? . . . 
What are the names of the two Houses of Parliament? 
. . . Are the members of the House of Lords chosen by 
the people? ... Is the Parliament building very old? .. . 
When are people allowed to go almost everywhere 
inside the Houses of Parliament? ... Why cannot all 
the members of the House of Commons find seats at 
a time? ... What is to be seen at the top of one of the 
towers of the Houses of Parliament when Parliament 
is sitting? . .. Who built the Tower? . .. Where is the 
Tower situated? ... 
EXERCISE C. 
How to ask and answer questions with ‘will’. 
Will John be fourteen years old on his next birthday? 
Answer . . . Question .. .? No, Mr. Miller will not go 
to France this year, but to England. Will the four 
travellers visit places outside London? Answer... 
Question . . .? Yes, they will spend some time at the 
British Museum. Will Mr. Miller have to look after 
his child while Mrs. Miller is away? Answer. . . 
Question . . .? Yes, they will have to work very much 
at their studies until summer. Will they wait for 
Brown at the station? Answer . . . Question . . .? No, 
the boy will not wake up if they are quiet. Will 
it suit Mr. Miller to go to England in the first half of 
322 
The Thirty-Fifth (35th) Chapter. 
July? Answer . .. Question . . .? Yes, it will cost 
Storm more than eight pounds to go to England. Will 
the English King and Queen stay at Balmoral Castle 
the whole summer? Answer . . . Question . . .? No, 
John and Helen will not play in the garden in winter. 
Will the three young men be able to speak English 
this summer? Answer . . . Question . ..? Yes, they 
will be able to understand the porters, too, when they 
have been there for some time. 
