Chapter Thirty-Six (36). 
The Thirty-Sixth (36th) Chapter. 
THE EARLY HISTORY OF ENGLAND 
none = no one 
The same evening they were having coffee after 
da seim i:vni?j dei wa: hunrirj koji a:jta 
dinner at the hotel, and talking about the Tower, 
dindr at da hou'tel , dnd to:kiy a'bant da tana , 
which they had seen in the afternoon, and about the 
hwitf dei had si:n in di 'a:jtann:n , and a bant da 
king who built it. While they were discussing these 
kiy hn: bilt it. hwail dei wa: dis'k\siy di:z 
things, they found that none of them knew very much 
piyz, dei fannd dat n\n av dam njn: veri m\tf 
about the history of England before the time of William 
a bant da histari av iygland bi'fo: da taim av wiljam 
the Conqueror. “Won’t you tell us something about 
da kaykara. “wonnt jn: tel as SAmpiy a bant 
the early history of England to-night, Mr. Miller?” 
di a:li histari av iygland tanait, mista mila ?” 
the young men asked the teacher. “It’s raining now, 
da j\y men a:skt da ti:tfa “its reiniy nan , 
and we are tired after having walked so much this 
and wi: a: taiad a:fta hieviy wo:kt son m\tf dis 
afternoon, so if you are no-t too tired to talk, we should 
{ a:ftann:n, son if jn: a: not tn: taiad ta to:k f wi: Jud 
like very much to stay at home this evening and hear 
laik veri m\tj ta stei at honm dis i:vniy and hia 
324 
The Thirty-Sixth (36th) Chapter. 
something about England and the English before the 
SAmpiy a'baut iygland dnd di iyglif bi'fo: da 
time of William the Conqueror/’ “No, only my feet 
taim av wiljam da koykara” “ nou , ounli mai fi:t 
are tired, not my head. It is tiring to walk about 
a: taiad , not mai hed. it iz taiarirj ta wo:k a'baut 
town on a hot day like to-day, so it will be nice to 
taim on a hot dei laik ta'dei, sou it wil bi: nais ta 
have a quiet evening at the hotel. Well, let us start 
hiev a kwaiat i:vniy at do hou'tel . wet , let as sta:t 
at the beginning, as far back as history can take us. 
at da bi'giniy, az fa: biek az histari kan teik as. 
We must go back about 2,000 years, to the time 
wi: mAst gou bxk a'baut tu: pauzand jiaz , ta da taim 
when Caesar, the Roman general, sailed to England 
hwen si:za , da rouman djenaral, seild tu iygland 
with an army of Roman soldiers. At that time the 
wid an a:mi av rouman souldpz. at diet taim da 
country was named Britain, and the people living in 
kAntri waz neimd britan , and da pi:pl liviy in 
it were called Britons or Celts.” 
it iva: ko:ld britanz o: kelts” 
Brown: “When did the country get the name of Eng- 
braun: “hwen did da kAntri get da neim av iy- 
land?” 
gland?” 
Mr. Miller: “It was not named England until several 
mista mila: “it waz not neimd iygland An'til sevral 
soldier 
325 
Chapter Thirty-Six (36). 
a nation = the 
people of a coun¬ 
try 
He fights, he 
fought, he has 
fought \fails, Jo:t , 
Ml 
hundred years later. Rome in Italy, where the Romans 
hAndrdd jiaz leitd. roum in itali , hived da roumanz 
came from, had conquered many of the nations of 
keim from , had koykad meni av da neifanz av 
Europe at that time, and in the year 54 B. C. 
juarap at dcet taim, and in da jia fifti'fo: hi: si: 
(before Christ) they had got as far as the Channel 
(bi'fo: kraist) dei had got az fa:r az da tfivnl 
between England and France. In that year, Caesar 
hi'twi:n iy gland and fra:ns. in divt jia , si:za 
sailed across the Channel to Britain with an army of 
seild akros da tfwnl ta britan wid an a:mi av 
Roman soldiers to fight the Britons. An army of 
rouman souldpz ta fait da britanz. an a:mi av 
Britons, under their general Cassivelaunus, was waiting 
britanz , a nda dea d^enaral ktvsivi'lomas , waz weitiy 
for them, and a great battle was fought near the river 
fa dam , and a greit btetl waz fo:t nia da riva 
Thames between the two armies. The Roman soldiers 
temz bi'twi:n da tu: a:miz. da rouman souldpz 
were far too good for the Britons; but some time after 
wa: fa: tu: gud fa da britanz; b\t s\m taim a:\ta 
the battle the Romans returned to their own country. 
da baetl da roumanz ri'tamd ta dear oun kxntri. 
About a hundred years later, however, a large part of 
a'baut a hxndrad jiaz leita , hau'eva , a la:d$ pa:t av 
Britain was conquered by the Romans. 
britan waz koykad bai da roumanz. 
326 
The Thirty-Sixth (36th) Chapter. 
"For about 350 years, Rome continued to 
(, for obaut pri: hxndrod dnd fifti jioz , roum kdritinju:d to 
send soldiers to Britain, and it was not long before the 
send souldpz to britdn , dnd it Wdz not lor) bi'fo: do 
Britons and their conquerors became quite good 
britonz ond deo koykoroz bi'keim kwait gud 
friends.” Storm: "They brought many new ideas to 
frendz” sto:m: “dei bro:t meni nju: ai'dioz to 
Britain, too, didn’t they?” Mr. Miller: "Yes, Britain, 
briton, tudidnt dei?” misto mild: “jes , britdn , 
as you know, is an island, that is, a piece of land with 
dz ju: noil , iz dn ailond , beet iz f d pi:s dv laend wid 
water on all sides, and the Britons, therefore, had lived 
wo:tdr on o:l saidz 9 ond do britonz , beofohod livd 
quite alone and had not learned all the new things 
kwait oloun ond hod not lo:nd o:l do nju: piyz 
which had come from the East. But now the Romans 
hwitf hod k\m from di i:st . b\t nau do roumonz 
taught them many modern things. They made good 
to:t bom meni modon piyz. dei meid gud 
roads through the country, and built bridges across the 
roudz pru: do k\ntri 9 ond bilt brid$iz okros. do 
rivers. But at last the Romans had to leave the country. 
rivoz. b\t ot la:st do roumonz hsed to li:v do k\ntri. 
Rome itself was in difficulties, and consequently the 
roum it'self woz in difikoltiz , ond konsikwontli do 
soldiers were called back.” 
souldpz wo: ko:ld biek 
quite = very 
difficulty = 
that which is 
difficult 
327 
Chapter Thirty-Six (36). 
a tribe = a very 
small nation, espe¬ 
cially in old times 
an enemy = the 
opposite of a 
friend 
one enemy 
two enemies 
He sets, he set, he 
has set [sefs,se£,se/]. 
fire 
Storm: “And then the Britons could enjoy all the 
sto:m: “ond den dd britdnz kud in'dpi o:l di 
advantages the Romans had brought them, without 
odvamtid^iz dd roumonz hdd bro:t ddm , wid'aut 
having foreign soldiers in the country!” 
hieviy forin souldpz in dd k\ntri!” 
Mr. Miller: “No, for as soon as the Romans had left 
mistd mild: “nou , /ar oz su:n dz dd roumdnz hdd left 
the country, the Britons began to have difficulties with 
dd k\ntri, dd britdnz bi'gam td hsev difikdltiz wid 
the Piets and Scots, two tribes who lived in the north. 
dd pikts dnd skots , tu: traibz hu: livd in dd no:p. 
These two tribes had always been the enemies of the 
di:z tu: traibz hdd o:lwdZ bi:n di enimiz dv dd 
Britons, but as long as the Romans were there, the 
britdnz , b\t dz log dz dd roumdnz Wd: ded , dd 
Piets and the Scots had lived in peace with the Britons. 
pikts dnd dd skots hod livd in pi:s wid do britdnz. 
Now they would not let them live in peace any longer. 
nau dei wud not let dom liv in pi:s eni loygo. 
They sent armies down to fight with the Britons; they 
dei sent a:miz daun to fait wid do britdnz; dei 
set fire to their towns and took their children away 
set faid td ded taunz dnd tuk ded tfildrdn owei 
from them. The Britons could not fight them alone, 
frdm ddm. dd britdnz kud not fait dom oloun y 
because they had not done any fighting while the 
bi'koz dei hod not d\n eni faitiy hwail do 
328 
The Thirty-Sixth (36th) Chapter. 
Romans were in Britain, and things went badly for 
roumdnz wa:r in britan , and piyz went bwdli jo: 
them.” Wood: “Couldn’t they get any help?” 
dam” wud: “kudnt del get eni help?” 
Mr. Miller: “Yes, they sent word to three tribes living 
mists mils: “jes, dei sent wa:d ta pri: traibz twig 
in northern Europe, asking them to come and help 
in na:dan juarap , a:skiy dam ta k\m and help 
them fight their enemies. The three tribes were the 
dam fait dear enimiz. da pri: traibz wa: da 
Jutes, the Saxons, and the Angles. The Angles were 
dju.-ts, da sveksnz , and di tvyglz. di wyglz wa: 
the largest tribe, and from their name they all got the 
da la:d$ist traib , and /ram dea neim dei o:l gat da 
name of 'English’. The English liked the island of 
neim av ‘iyglif. di iVQlif laikt di ailand av 
Britain so well that they stayed there after the war 
britan sou wel dat dei steid dea a:fta da wo: 
with the Piets and the Scots was over.” Storm: “I can 
wid da pikts and da skats waz ouva” sta:m: “ai kan 
well understand that. I should like to stay a little longer 
wel a ndastcvnd diet, ai fud laik ta stei a litl layga 
myself!” Mr. Miller: “Me too! Well, for the next 
mai'self!” mista mila: “mi: tu:! wel , fa da nekst 
70 years Angles and Saxons continued to come to 
sevnti jiaz wyglz and sxksnz karitinju:d ta k\m tu 
England, as Britain is now called, from the Continent. 
iggland , az britan iz nau ka:ld , jram da kantinant . 
to send word ~ to 
send a letter, or to 
send a person to 
tell something 
war = fighting 
continent 
Africa is a conti¬ 
nent, Europe is a 
continent. 
329 
Chapter Thirty-Six (36). 
the greater part 
(of only two 
parts); the 
greatest part (of 
more than two 
parts) 
mountains 
the Continent = 
the European con¬ 
tinent = all the 
countries of 
Europe together, 
except England, 
Wales, Scotland, 
and Ireland 
ship = big boat 
They conquered the greater part of the country from 
dei kaykad da greita pad av da k\ntri fram 
the Britons, whom they had come to help, and the 
da britanz , hu:m dei had k\m ta help , and da 
Welsh, as the English called the Britons or Celts, had 
welf , az di iyglif kodd da britanz a: kelts , hu>d 
to go to the mountains in Wales to be able to live in 
la gou ta da rnauntinz in weilz ta bi: eibl ta liv in 
peace. The tribes that came from the Continent had at 
pi:s . da traibz dat keim fram da kantinant hivd at 
first several kings, but in 825 Egbert 
fa:st sevral ki?jz, b\t in eit h\ndrad and twenti'faiv egbad 
became king of all England. While he was king, the 
bi'keim kiy av ad iygland. hivail hi: waz ki?j , da 
Vikings from Norway and Denmark began to come to 
vaikiyz fram na.wei and denma:k bigven ta k\m tu 
England. For 200 years the English and the 
iygland. fa tu: hxndrad fiaz di iyglif and da 
Vikings were at war with each other, and the Vikings 
vaikiyz wa:r at wa: wid i:tf Ada , and da vaikiyz 
came nearly every summer in their long ships. They 
keim niali evri s\ma in dea lay fips. dei 
set fire to the towns of the English and sailed back 
set faia ta da taunz av di iyglif and seild btek 
with their ships full of the fine things they had taken 
wid dea fips ful av da fain piyz dei had teikn 
from them.” Brown: “Did the Vikings ever conquer 
fram dam” braun: “did da vaikiyz eva kaykar 
330 
The Thirty-Sixth (36th) Chapter. 
England?” 
irjgldnd?” 
Mr. Miller: ‘'Yes, they did, and from 1016 until 
mistd mild: “jes, dei did , dnd from ten 'siks'ti:n a n'til 
1042 there were even Danish kings in England. 
ten fo:ti'tu: bed wd:r i:vdn deinij kiyz in iyghnd. 
In 1066 the Normans, who were Vikings that 
in ten siksti'siks bd no:mdnz , hu: Wd: vaikiyz bdt 
had conquered the north of France and learned to 
hdd koykdd bd no:p dv fra:ns dnd h:nd id 
speak French, conquered England, and William, who 
spi:k frenf , koykdd igghnd , dnd wiljdm, hu: 
was now called the Conqueror, was made king. That 
Wdz nau ko:ld bd koykdrd, Wdz meid kiy. bset 
was the last time that an army from the European 
Wdz bd la:st taim bdt dn a:mi jrdm bd judrd'pi:dn 
continent conquered Britain. Many other countries 
kontindni kogkdd britdn. meni a bd kxntriz 
have made war against England; Spain sent a large 
hdv meid wo:r d'geinst iyghnd; spein sent d la:d$ 
number of ships against her, but neither the Spaniards 
n\mbdr dv fips d'geinst hdb\t naibd bd spsenjddz 
nor any other nations have ever conquered her after 
no:r eni \bd neifdnz hdv evd kogkdd hd: a:ftd 
the Battle of Hastings in 1066. 
bd baetl dv heistiyz in ten siksti'siks. 
"In our time we can see how the different conquerors 
“in aud taim wi: kdn si: hau bd difrdnt koykdrdz 
the Spaniards = 
the people living 
in Spain 
331 
Chapter Thirty-Six (36). 
Anglo-Saxon = 
the language spo¬ 
ken by the Angles 
and the Saxons 
of Britain have left their impression on the country, 
ov britdn hov left dedr im'prefdn on do k\niri , 
on its people and its language. In the north and east 
on its pi:pl ond its lxygwid$. in do no:p ond i:st 
of England, there are many towns with Danish and 
ov iyglond, deor a: meni taunz wid deinif ond 
Norwegian names, for example, Derby and Grimsby, 
no:'wi:dpn neimz, for ig'za:mpl , da:bi ond grimzbi , 
and the people use many old Danish and Norwegian 
ond do pi:pl ju:z meni ould deinif ond no:'wi:dpn 
words. In the English language we find many words 
wo:dz. in di iyglif l&ygu)id$ wi: faind meni wo:dz 
which the English have borrowed from the Normans, 
hwitf di iyglif hov boroud from do no:monz 9 
and just as the language is a mixture of French and 
ond d$\st oz do lseygwid$ iz o mikstfor ov frenf ond 
Anglo-Saxon, the people, too, mixed with their con- 
' xyglou's&ksn , do pi:pl, tumikst wid deo koy- 
querors. And the mixture is a good one, I think. But 
koroz. ond do mikstfor iz o gud w\n , ai piyk. b\t 
the Welsh, who went to the mountains in the west, 
do welf, hu: went to do mauntinz in do west , 
did not mix so much with the different conquerors of 
did not miks sou m\tf wid do difront koykoroz ov 
Britain. The enemies could not cross the maun tains 
briton . di enimiz kud not kros do mauntinz 
and, therefore, had to leave them in peace, so that 
ond, deofo:, heed to li:v dom in pi:s 9 sou dot 
332 
The Thirty-Sixth (36th) Chapter. 
to-day we find people in Wales who are quite different 
to dei wi: faind pi:pl in wcilz hu: a: kwait difront 
from the usual English people. They are darker, they 
from do ju:$uol iyglif pi:pL dei a: da:ko f dei 
like very much to sing and to play, and they all feel 
laik veri m\tf id sir) ond to plei , dnd dei o:l fid 
that they are Welsh, not English. But for several 
ddt dei a: welf , not iyglif• b\t \o sevrol 
hundred years the three peoples, the Welsh, the Scotch, 
h\ndrod jioz do pri: pi:plz , do welf , do skotf , 
the Scotch = the 
Scots 
and the English, have lived in peace with each other 
ond di iyglif , hov livd in pi:s wid idf a do 
in Great Britain. I should explain, however, that the 
in greit briton. ai fud iks'plein , hau'evo , dot do 
Scotch do not like to be called Scotch. They themselves 
skotf du: not laik to bi: kodd skotf. dei dom'selvz 
always use the word 'Scots’/’ 
odwoz ja:z do wo:d 'skots 
Storm: “It has been very interesting to learn all this, 
sto:m: “it hoz bi:n veri intristirj to lo:n o.l dis t 
and it has given us a greater understanding of the 
ond it hoz givn as o greitor \ndostxndiy ov do 
country we are visiting. It was a good thing that we 
k\ntri wi: a: vizitiy. it woz o gud piy dot wi: 
stayed at home to-night.” 
steid ot houm to'nait. if 
333 
Chapter Thirty-Six (36). 
EXERCISE A. 
WORDS: 
none 
history 
tiring 
beginning 
Roman 
Rome 
general 
soldier 
name (verb) 
nation 
the Channel 
Christ 
B.C. 
battle 
army 
quite 
difficulty 
Briton 
Britain 
Celt 
Piet 
Scot 
Scotch 
tribe 
enemy 
peace 
set 
fire 
fight 
fought 
The three young men did not know much about the 
— of England before William the Conqueror. —, they 
asked their teacher to tell them — about early times 
in England. They had been — so much in the after¬ 
noon that they had all got very —. The teacher told 
them about the Roman — who had sailed to England 
with his —. He also told them about the — that was 
fought between the — of Caesar and that of Cassive- 
launus. 
Long after the battle the Romans — a large — of 
the country. Did the Romans and the Britons con¬ 
tinue to be —? No, it was not long before the 
Britons and their — became — good friends. Why had 
the Britons continued to live — alone, so that they had 
not — the many new things from the —? Because 
Britain is an — with water on all —. Why did the 
Romans have to — the country again? Because — 
itself was in —. What two — from the north began 
to — with the Britons after the Romans had —? The 
Piets and the Scots sent — down to — with the Britons. 
Whom did the Britons ask to come and — them against 
their enemies? They sent word to three tribes — in 
northern — to come and — them. Is there — between 
the different people living in Britain now? No, the —, 
the —, and the English all live together in — now. 
EXERCISE B. 
What were the travellers talking about while they 
were having coffee after dinner? ... What was the 
334 
The Thirty-Sixth (36th) Chapter. 
weather like that evening? . .. How far back did they 
start their view of the history of England? . .. What 
nation had conquered many of the European nations 
about the year 50 B. C.? . . . For how long did Rome 
continue to send soldiers to Britain? . . . What good 
did the Romans do to the Britons? . . . Why could the 
Britons not fight their enemies alone after the 
Romans had left? . . . Whose ships began to come to 
England while Egbert was king? . . . What did the 
Vikings want in England? . . . Who was made king 
after the Normans had conquered England? .. . Has 
England had wars with other nations since then? . . . 
What is the name of the people who live in Wales? .. . 
EXERCISE C. 
How to ask and answer questions with do, does, did, 
have, has, had’. 
Does it blow harder at sea than ashore? Answer . . . 
Question . . .? No, it only rains very little in London 
during the month of July. Did snow ever fall in the 
country where the four travellers came from? Answer 
. . . Question . . .? No, there did not seem to be any 
end to London. Has any snow fallen in your town 
during the last six months? Answer. . . Question 
. . .? No, it has not rained to-day. Do you wash 
yourself every morning? Answer . . . Question . . .? 
No, the Smith baby does not wash itself; it is too 
young for that. Did the four travellers enjoy themselves 
in London? Answer . . . Question . . .? Yes, Mrs. Smith 
washed herself before she went to the birthday-party. 
Have you not made yourself ready yet? Answer . . . 
fighting 
northern 
Jute 
Saxon 
Angle 
Welsh 
war 
mountain 
Viking 
continent 
island 
against 
Spain 
Spaniard 
Norman 
Anglo-Saxon 
mixture 
mix 
usual 
ship 
nice 
Italy 
conquer 
335 
Chapter Thirty-Six (36). 
Question . . .? Yes, I have washed myself in hot water. 
Had the young men walked until they had become 
tired? Answer . . . Question . . .? Yes, they had often 
talked themselves sleepy in the evenings in their own 
country. 
336 
