Chapter Thirty-Seven (37). 
The Thirty-Seventh (37th) Chapter. 
ENGLISH INSTITUTIONS 
One day our four friends passed a hospital. Outside 
war dei auo jo: frendz pa:st o hospitl. 'aut'said 
they saw a placard or poster, on which was written poster = placard 
dei so: o plieka:d o: pousto, on bwitj woz ritn 
in big letters: £ 10,000 still needed to pay for 
in big letoz: ten pauzond paundz stil ni:did to pei jo 
last year. 
la:st jio. 
Brown: “What is the meaning of the placard? Would 
braun: “hwoi iz do mi:niy ov do plwka:d? wild 
you be kind enough to explain that to us, Mr. Miller?” 
ju: bi: kaind Vn\f tu iks'plein diet tu as, misto milo?” 
Mr. Miller: “Yes, that means that the hospital still 
misto milo: {t jes, duet mi:nz dot do hospitl stil 
needs £ 10,000 to be able to pay its bills 
ni:dz ten pauzond paundz to bi: eibl to pei its bilz 
for last year. Many of the big hospitals in England 
fo la:st jio . meni ov do big hospitlz in iyglond 
are private, that is, neither the State nor the towns state = nation 
a: praivit, diet iz, naido do steil no: do taunz 
in which they are situated have anything to do with 
in hwitj dei a: sitjueitid hsev enipiy to du: wid 
them, so that they do not get any money from the 
dom, sou dot dei du: not get eni mAni from do 
10/1 
337 
ogQ 
Chapter Thirty-Seven (37). 
towns or from the State to pay for their work.” Brown: 
taunz o: from do steit to pei fo Seo wo:k” braim: 
“How do they get money, then?” 
“hau da: dei get m\ni 9 den?” 
Mr. Miller: “It is given to them by private people. 
mistd mih: “it iz givn to bom bai praivit pi:pl. 
Money for the hospitals is often collected on special 
m\ni /a 0a hospitlz iz o:fn kolektid on spefol 
days in the year. There is, for example, a special 
deiz in do - jio. deor iz 9 for ig'za:mpl 9 a spefol 
Saturday called Hospital Saturday on which a lot of 
sxtodi ko:ld hospitl ssetodi on hwitf a lot ov 
money is collected for the hospitals in the streets, at 
m\ni iz koiektid /a do hospitlz in do slri:ts 9 at 
the doors, etc. And as you have seen just now, posters 
do do:z 9 it'setro. ond oz ju: hov si:n d$\st nau 9 poustoz 
church 
tell people all the year round that the hospitals need 
tel pi:pl o:l do jio raund dot do hospitlz ni:d 
money. In some countries, most of the hospitals, 
m\ni. in s\m kxntriz , moust ov do hospitlz , 
schools, and churches are paid for either by the State 
sku:lz 9 ond tfo:tfiz a: peid fo: aido bai do steit 
or by the towns. They are what we call public and get 
o: bai do taunz. dei a: hwot wi: ko:l pxblik ond get 
public help; but in England this is not always so. Here 
p\blik help; b\t in iyglond dis iz not o.iwoz sou . hio 
those three institutions are often private. I have 
douz pri: insti'tju:/ on z a:r o:fn praivit. ai hov 
338 
The Thirty-Seventh (37th) Chapter. 
already mentioned one of them, the hospitals. 
o:l rcdi menfand w\n av 6am, da hospitlz . 
to mention = to 
speak of 
'‘Now I will tell you a little about the schools. They 
“nau ai wil tel ju: a litl a'baut 6a sku:lz. 6ei 
may be divided into higher and lower schools. Most 
mei bi: di'vaidid inb ham and Iona sku:lz. moust 
to divide = to 
make into parts 
lower schools are paid for by the towns. They are open 
loua sku:lz a: peid fa: bai 6a taunz . 6ei a:r oupan 
to everybody, and nobody has to pay anything for 
tu cvribodi , and noubodi hxz ta pei enipiy fa 
sending his children to one of the lower schools. The 
sendiy hiz tfildran la w\n ao da loua sku:lz. da 
pupils enter the lower schools, which are also called 
pjucplz enta 6a loua sku:lz 9 hwitf a:r o:lsou ko:ld 
primary = first 
the Primary or Elementary Schools, at the age of 
6a praimari a:r cli'mentari sku.lz , at 6i eid$ av 
What is his age? 
= How old is he? 
five. When they are about eleven years old, they pass 
faiv. hwen 6ei a:r a'baut i'levn fiaz ould 9 6ei pa:s 
they pass on to = 
they are moved to 
on to the higher or Secondary Schools, which they 
on ta 6a haiar o: sekandari sku:lz , hwitf 6ei 
do not leave until they are between sixteen and 
du: not li:v \ritil 6ci a: bi'twim siksti:n and 
secondary = se¬ 
cond 
eighteen years of age. Most of the higher or Secondary 
eitim fiaz av eid$. moust av 6a haiar o: sekandari 
Schools are paid for by the towns. It does not cost 
sku:lz a: peid fo: bai 6a taunz . it d\z not kost 
anything to send children to these schools. However, 
enipiy ta send tfildran ta 6i:z sku:l2. hau'eva , 
339 
Chapter Thirty-Seven (37). 
a foreigner = a 
person from 
another country 
though = although 
national = of the 
whole nation 
there is also a large number of private Secondary 
beor iz o:lsou a //a.dj n\mbdr dv praivit sekdnddri 
Schools. 
sku.lz. 
“The third institution I mentioned is the Church. 
“bd pd:d insti'tju:fdn ai menfdnd iz bd tfd:tf. 
People usually think that the English are very religious. 
pi:pl ju:$udli piyk bdt bi iyglif a: veri ri'lidps. 
Foreigners have the idea that all Englishmen go to 
forindz hxv bi m'did bdt o:l iyglif man gou id 
church v€ry often, so I think you will be surprised to 
tfddf ver i souai piyk ju: wil bi: sd'praizd Id 
hear that the Church of England is not a State church. 
hid bdt bd dv iggfond iz not a steit tfd:tf. 
It is called the Church of England, but though it has 
it iz ko:ld bd tfd:tf dv iyghnd , b\t bon it hicz 
this name, it is not a State church, because it does 
bis neim , it iz not a steit tfd'.tf, bi'koz it d\z 
not get any money from the State. We may, however, 
not get eni m\ni from bd steit. wi: mei , hau'evd , 
say that it is a national church, because more Eng- 
sei bdt it iz a neefdndl tfd:tf , bi'koz mo:r iy- 
lishmen are members of this church than of any other 
glifmon a: memboz ov bis tfo:lJ bon ov eni \bo 
church in England. 
tfd.’if in iyglond . 
“You see, therefore, that some institutions which are 
“ju: si:, beojo:, bdt s\m insii'tju:fdnz hwitf a: 
340 
The Thirty-Seventh (37th) Chapter. 
usually public in other countries are very often private 
ju:$uoli pAblik in a do k\ntriz a: veri o:fn praivit 
in England/’ 
in vyglond .” 
Storm: '‘Yes, and those are not the only things in 
sto:m: “jes , and. douz a: not di ounli piyz in 
which the English are different from the people in 
hwitf di iyglif a: dijront from do pi:pl in 
most other countries. I think that England and Sweden 
mousi \do kAntriz. ai piyk dot iyglond ond swi.dn 
are the only two countries where the traffic keeps to 
a: di ounli tu: kAntriz hweo do trxfik ki:ps to 
the left. If you come from a country where the traffic 
do left, if ju: kAm from o kAntri hweo do trsefik 
keeps to the right, it is important when you cross a 
ki:ps to do rait , it iz im'po.tont hwen ju: kros o 
street always to look in both directions. It is not a 
stri:t o:lwoz to Ink in boup di'rekfonz. it iz not o 
good thing to take chances. Why do England and 
gud pig to teik tfa:nsiz. hwai du: iyglond ond 
Sweden keep to the left, when most other nations in 
swi:dn ki:p to do left , hwen mousi Ado neijonz in 
the world keep to the right?” 
do wo:ld ki:p to do rait?” 
Mr. Miller: “I am afraid I can’t answer that question. 
misto milo: “ai om o'freid ai ka:nt a:nso dirt kwestfon. 
However, when foreigners come to England, it only 
hau'evo , hwen forinoz kAm tu iyglond , it ounli 
He keeps, he kept, 
he has kept [ki:ps, 
kept, kept]. 
341 
Chapter Thirty-Seven (37). 
monetary = 
which has to do 
with money 
equal to = th e 
same as 
takes them a short time to get used to it. There are 
teiks ddm d fo:t taim td get ju:st tu it. dedr a: 
many other things in which the English are different 
mcni a dd piyz in hwitf di iyglif a: difrdnt 
from other nations. As an example I might mention 
frdm \dd -ncifdnz. dz dn ig'za.mpl ai mait menfdn 
the English monetary system. Most countries in the 
di mAnitdri sistim. moust k\ntriz in dd 
world now use the decimal system. The decimal 
Wd:ld nau ju:z dd desimdl sistim. dd desimdl 
system, as you know, is built upon figures which may 
sistim, dz ju: noil, iz bilt d'pon figdz hwitf mei 
be divided by ten. But the English continue to use 
bi: di'vaidid bai ten. b\t di iggHf kdn'tinju: td fu:z 
their pounds, shillings, and pence. 
ded paundz, filiyz , dnd pens. 
“Their weights and measures, too, are different from 
“ded weits dnd mepz, tu:, a: difrdnt frdm 
those of other countries. In some countries they still 
douz dv js.dd kxntriz. in s\m k\ntriz dei stil 
have a weight called a pound, which is equal to 
hsev d weit ko:ld d paund, hwitf iz i.kwdl td 
500 grammes (or half a kilogramme), but in Eng- 
faiv h\ndrdd griemz (o: ha:f a kilogrwm), b\t in in¬ 
land one pound (1 lb) is equal to 454 
ghnd w\n paund iz i:kwdl td fo: hxndrdd dnd fifti'fo: 
grammes. While other countries speak of kilometres, 
grxmz. hwail a dd kxntriz spifk dv kitdmi.tdz. 
342 
The Thirty-Seventh (37th) Chapter. 
metres, and centimetres, the English have such 
mi:tdz , ond sentimi:toz f di iyglif keev s\tf 
measures as miles and yards. The length of a mile is 
mepz dz mailz dnd ja:dz. dd leyp dv d mail iz 
equal to 1.61 kilometres, and the point =. 
i.kwdl td w\n point siks w\n kilomidoz, dnd dd 
length of a yard is equal to 0.91 metre, naught [na:/] = o 
leyp ov d ja:d iz i:kwdl td no:t point nain w\n mi:to. 
A yard has 36 inches. 
o ja:d hwz pd:ti'siks infiz. 
“The main reason why the English do not change their 
“Sd mein ri:zn hwai di iyglif du: not lfeind$ deo 
weights and measures is that they like to keep to the 
weits ond mcpz iz ddt dei laik td ki:p td di 
old things, and the most important reason for this is, 
ould pirjz , ond dd moust impodont ri:zn fd dis iz 9 
perhaps, that England is an island, cut off by the sea 
pd'haepSy ddt iyglond iz dn ailond , k\t o:f bai dd si: 
from the other countries of the world. When the 
frdm di Add kxntriz dv dd wd:ld. hwen di 
English cross the Channel, they seem to feel that they 
iyglif kros dd tjsenl , dei si:m td fid ddt dei 
enter quite another world, different from their own, 
entd kwait d'nxdd Wddd, difrdnt frdm dedr oun y 
and mostly they do not like what they see in other 
dnd moustli dei du: not laik hwot dei si: in \do 
countries so well as they do their own things.” 
k\ntriz sou wel oz dei du: deor oun piyz'' 
343 
Chapter Thirty-Seven (37). 
WORDS: 
hospital 
placard 
poster 
private 
public 
state 
church 
institution 
mention 
divide 
elementary 
primary 
secondary 
age 
religious 
though 
national 
keep 
kept 
system 
decimal 
monetary 
weight 
measure 
length 
pound (lb) 
equal 
gramme 
kilogramme 
metre 
EXERCISE A. 
One day the young men saw a — or poster on which 
they read that a — needed money to pay its bills. 
The hospitals are not all paid for by the towns or the 
—; many of them are —. In some countries the 
hospitals, schools, and — are all —. English schools 
are — into higher and lower schools. The children 
enter the lower schools at the — of five. The Church 
of England is not a State church, but it may be called 
a — church. In England and Sweden traffic — to the 
left. The English — system is different from that of 
most other countries, too. In some countries they still 
have a — called a —, which is — to 500 grammes. The 
English — is — to 454 grammes. Instead of kilometres, 
metres, and centimetres, the English — are —, —, and 
inches. The — of a mile is — to 1.61 kilometres. 
EXERCISE B. 
What does it mean that an institution is public? . . . 
What three institutions in England do you know that 
are mostly private? . . . How do many hospitals get 
money to pay for their work? ... At what age do the 
children begin school? . . . Where do the children pass 
on to from the Primary or Elementary Schools? . . . 
Why do we call the Church of England a national 
church? . . . Why must foreigners look in both direc¬ 
tions when they cross streets in London? ... To which 
side of the street does the English traffic keep? . . . 
What is the English monetary system like? . . . What 
are the English measures? . . . What is the length of 
a yard? . . . What is the main reason why the English 
keep to their old systems? . . . 
344 
The Thirty-Seventh (37th) Chapter. 
EXERCISE C. 
How to ask and answer questions with 'can, could, 
may, might’. 
Can Mr. Miller speak English? Answer . . . Question 
. . .? Yes, the young men can understand most of what 
they hear now. Can Brown afford to buy his clothes 
in Bond Street? Answer . . . Question . . .? Yes, you 
can buy many things at Self ridge’s; the Londoners 
say: everything from a pin to an elephant. May you 
take any cigars along with you into England without 
paying duty? Answer . . . Question . . .? No, you may 
not get into England without a passport. May people 
see the inside of Parliament? Answer . . . Question ...? 
Yes, you may drive on the left side of the streets of 
London, because in England all traffic keeps to the 
left. Could the young men hear what the speaker in 
the park was saying? Answer . . . Question . . .? No, 
the King’s carriage could not pass through Marble 
Arch, because it was too narrow. Could the young 
men get their holidays at the same time? Answer . . . 
Question . . .? No, they could not see the King and 
Queen, because they were in Scotland. Might our 
friends swim in the Serpentine if they wanted to? 
Answer... Question ...? Yes, he might take the seventy- 
five cigars into England without paying duty, because 
each of the four men took some of them through the 
Customs. Might they see any part of Hampton Court 
Palace? Answer . . . Question . . .? Yes, the speakers 
in Hyde Park might say what they wanted to; nobody 
stopped them 
centimetre 
yard 
foreigner 
naught 
point 
345 
