Chapter Thirty-Eight (38). 
The Thirty-Eighth (38th) Chapter. 
A VISIT TO AN ENGLISH FAMILY 
Before they started on the trip, Storm’s manager had 
bi'fo: dei sta.tid on do trip, sto:mz msenidp hod 
asked him to go one day to the manager of the London 
a:ski him to gou war dei to do mvenidpr ov do lAndon 
branch of the firm. It would interest the young man, 
bra:nf ov do fo:m. it wud intrist do j\?j mam, 
he thought, to see the work in a big English office, 
hi: pod, to si: do wo:k in o big iyglif of is, 
and he? would learn something which might be useful 
ond hi: wud lo:n SAmpiy hwitf mait bi: ju:sful 
to him later on in his work at home. 
to him leitor on in hiz wo:k ot houm. 
So one day during the last week of their stay in 
sou war dei djuoriy do la:st wi:k ov deo stei in 
London, Storm went to pay a visit to the London 
lAndon, sto:m went to pei o vizit to do lAndon 
office. Mr. Edwards, the manager, greeted him very 
ofis. mistor edwodz, do msenidp, gri:tid him veri 
kindly. “How do you do,” he said; “your manager 
kaindli. “haudju'du:,” hi: sed; “jo: msenidp 
wrote and told me that you were coming, so I have 
rout ond tould mi: dot ju: wo: kAmiy, sou ai hov 
been expecting you. But come into my private office 
bi:n iks'pektiy ju:. bAt kAm into mai praivit ofis 
branch = part of 
a firm, situated at 
another place than 
the main firm 
346 
The Thirty-Eighth (38th) Chapter. 
and tell me what you have been doing. YQur manager 
and tel mi: hwot ju: hav bi:n du:iy. jo: mamidpr 
and I are old friends, you know. He was over here 
and ai a:r ould frcndz, ju: non . hi: waz oiwo hid 
to study the business when I was a young man in 
to stxdi dd biznis hwen ai waz a /at? mien in 
this same office, so we know each other very well. I 
dis seim ojis, sou ivi: non i:if Ada veri wel . ai 
shall be glad to show you round the place.” round (here) = 
fal bi: glied ta Jou ju: raund da pleis ” 
A little later, when they were walking round, Mr. 
a litl leita, hwen dei wa: wo:kiy raund, mistar 
Edwards showed him several modern machines that 
edwadz foud him sevral modan ma'Jimz dat 
they had just bought. “Come and have a look at this 
dei had d$Ast bo:t. “kAm and hcev a luk at dis 
one,” he said, showing him an adding machine. “It 
WAn,” hi: sed, fouiy him an tediy ma'fim. “it 
is a very useful machine, which saves us a lot of time. 
iz a veri ju:sful ma'fim, hwitf seivz as a lot av taim. 
Before we got it, we had a man who sat all day adding 
bi'jo: wi: got it, wi: hied a mxn hu: sset o:l dei cediy 
figures; now the same man does the same work in less 
jigaz; nau da seim mien dAZ da seim wa:k in les 
than three hours with his machine. That means more 
dan pri: auaz wid hiz ma'fim . 6xt mimz mo: 
than five hours saved every day.” Storm was shown 
dan faiv auaz seivd evri dei” sio:m waz foun 
347 
Chapter Thirty-Eight (38). 
a conversation = 
a talk between 
two or more 
persons 
dinm’-jaeket 
some other modern things that are useful in an office, 
s\m \3d modon piyz dot a: ju:sful in on ojis , 
and then they went back to the manager’s private 
dnd den dei went bwk id dd mwnidpz praivit 
office. After Storm had told the manager what they 
of is. a: ftd sh:m hdd tonld dd mtenidp hwot dei 
had seen and done during their stay in England, Mr. 
hdd si:n dnd d\n djuoriy deo stei in iyglond, mistor 
Edwards said, “I know what it is like to be in a for- 
edwddz sed , "ai nou hwot it iz laik td bi: in o \o- 
eign country as a tourist. You do not get into con- 
rin k\ntri dz d tudrist. ju: du: not get into kon- 
versation with Englishmen as much as you would like 
vo'seif on wid iyglifmon oz m\if oz ju: wild taik 
to. So if you would like to come and dine with us to¬ 
fu. sou if ju: wud laik to k\m ond dain wid as to¬ 
night , all four of you, my wife and I would be very 
nait, o:l fo:r ov jumai waif ond ai wud bi: veri 
pleased. Could you come at half past seven?” “Thank 
pli:zd. kud ju: kAm ot ha:f pa:st sevn?” “pwyk 
you very much, that is very kind of you!” Storm 
ju: veri mAtf , dvet iz veri kaind ov ju:!” sto:m 
answered, “but I am afraid that we have not brought 
a:nsod , “5a/ ai om o freid dot wi: hov not bro:t 
the right clothes for that. We took as little luggage 
do rait kloudz fo diet, wi: tuk oz litl lAgidj 
as possible, and none of us have brought our dinner- 
oz posobl , ond nAn ov as hov bro:t auo dino- 
348 
The Thirty-Eighth (38th) Chapter. 
jackets. We didn’t expect an invitation to dinner, you 
dfiekils. wi: didnt iks'pekt an inviteifan to dina , ja: 
know.” At this reply Mr. Edwards laughed, saying, 
non." dt bis ri'plai mistar edwddz la:ft , seiiy, 
“My dear boy, what a funny idea that it would be 
“mai did boi, hwot 9 f\ni ai'dia ddt it wud bi: 
necessary for you to wear a dinner-jacket! I am 
nesisdri fd fu: td wear a dinadjxkit! ai am 
afraid that it is an idea that many foreigners have. I 
a'freid bat it iz an ai'dia bat meni forinaz haev. ai 
know that some English writers give that impression 
nou bat s\m iyglif raitaz giv baet im'prejan 
in their books. Kipling, for example, gives the im- 
in bea buks. kipliy , far ig'za:mpl, givz bi im¬ 
pression that Englishmen wear dinner-jackets for 
'prefan bat iyglifman wea dinad^xkits fa 
dinner every evening. But this may only be said of 
dina evri i:vniy. b\t bis mei ounli bi: sed av 
some people of the upper classes. The Englishman of 
s\m pi:pl av bi \pa kla.siz. bi iyglifman av 
the middle classes wears his usual clothes for dinner, 
ba midi kia.siz weaz hiz ju:$ual kloubz fa dina , 
and he is not so much interested in the clothes that 
and hi: iz not sou m\tf intristid in ba kloubz bat 
people wear as in the people wearing them. Speaking 
pi:pl wea az in ba pi:pl weariy bam. spi:kiy 
necessary = which 
must be done 
He wears, he wore, 
he has worn 
Iwezz, wo:, wo:n\. 
upper = higher 
for myself, it has not been necessary for me to wear 
fa mai'self, it haz not bi:n nesisari fa mi: ta wear 
349 
Chapter Thirty-Eight (38). 
a dinner-jacket for six months, and the last time I 
a dinad^rkit fa siks m\nps y and da la:st taim ai 
wore mine it was only because it was necessary to 
wo: main it waz ounli bi'koz it waz nesisari ta 
give it some fresh air. May we expect you to dinner, 
giv it s\m fref ea . mei wi: iks'pekt ju: ta dina , 
then?” Storm: '‘Yes, thank you, we shall be very pleased 
den?” sto:m: “ jes , pxyk juwi: fal bi: veri pli:zd 
to come.” 
ta k\m” 
When Storm told his friends about the invitation, 
hwen sto:m tould hiz frendz abaut 8i invi'teifan , 
they were all very pleased at the chance of speaking 
dei wa:r o:l veri pli:zd at da tfa.ns av spi:kiy 
to an Englishman and his family in their home. They 
tu an iyglifman and hiz f&mili in dea houm. dei 
arrived at Mr. Edwards’s a little before 7.30 and 
a'raivd atmistar edwadziz a litl bi'fo: sevn pa:ti and 
were shown into the sitting-room. They found Mr. 
wa: foun inta da sitiyrum. dei faund mistar 
Edwards with his wife, and he introduced Storm to 
edwadz wid hiz waif , and hi: intradju:st sto:m ta 
his wife with the words, “My dear, may I introduce 
hiz waif wid da wa:dz , “mai dia , mei ai intradju:s 
Mr. Storm to you? Mr. Storm, this is my wife.” Storm 
mistasto:m ta ju:? mista sto:m , dis iz mai waif” sto:m 
greeted her, saying, “How do you do, Mrs. Edwards,” 
gri.tid haseiirj , “haudju'du:, misiz edwadz” 
350 
The Thirty-Eighth (38th) Chapter. 
and then he introduced his friends, “This is Mr. Miller, 
dnd den hi: intro'dju:st hiz frcndz , “Sis iz mistd mite , 
our teacher, and these are my two friends, Mr. Wood 
auo ti:tfd , and di:z a: mai tu: frendz , mistd wud 
and Mr. Brown/' 
dnd mistd braun .” 
Mr. Miller thanked Mr. and Mrs. Edwards for their 
mistd mite pivgkt mister dnd misiz edwddz fd bed 
kindness in asking three strangers — three men whom 
kaindnis in a:skiij pri: streindpz — pri: men hu:m 
they did not know — to dinner. After a glass of wine 
Sei did not non — to dino. a:ftor o gla:s ov wain 
Mr. Edwards said to Mr. Miller, Brown, and Wood, 
mister edwodz sed to mistd mite , braun , and wud , 
“May Mr. Storm and I leave you for a few minutes? 
“mci mistd sto:m and ai li:v ju: for a fju: minits? 
There is something I want to speak to Mr. Storm 
deor iz s\mphj ai wont to spi:k to mistd stem 
about before dinner. — Will you fill the gentlemen’s 
o'baul bijo: dino. — wit ju: fit bo d$entlmonz 
glasses again, my dear,” he said to his wife, “while 
{jla:siz o'gcin, mai did ” hi: sed to hiz waif 9 “hwail 
Mr. Storm and I go into my study?” 
miste stem ond ai gou into mai stAdi?” 
Mr. Edwards’s study was a nice large room with book- 
mistor cdwodziz st\di woz o nais la:d$ rum wib buk- 
shelves along two walls, a fire-place, in front of which 
felvz o'loy tu: wo:lz , a jaiopleis , in fr\nt ov hwitf 
one shelf 
two shelves 
351 
Chapter Thirty-Eight (38). 
writing-lable 
there were some big chairs, and a large writing-table 
deo wo: s\m big tfedz, ond o la:dj raitiyteibl 
with many papers and books. Over the fire-place was 
wid meni pcipdz dnd buks. ouvd do faiopleis woz 
a shelf, on which there was a fine old clock. “Sit down 
d Jclfy on hwitf ded Wdz d fain ould klok . "sit daun 
in that chair, Storm,” said Mr. Edwards, “I will take 
in diet tfed , sto:msed mistdr edwddz , il ai wil teik 
this one.” He then began, “How would you like to 
dis w\n” hi: den bi'gsen, “hau wud ju: laik id 
stay on = stay 
stay on here a few months longer, Storm? You see, 
stei on hior o fju: m\nps log go, sto:m? ju: si:, 
to be taken ill = 
to become ill 
one of my young men at the office was taken ill last 
w\n ov mai jxg men ot di ofis woz teikn il la:st 
week, and he will not be able to start work again 
wi:k y ond hi: wil not bi: eibl to sia:t wo:k o'gein 
until the beginning of next year. He has been doing 
\n'til do bi'ginig ov nekst jio. hi: hoz bi:n du:iy 
all our foreign correspondence; most of it is with 
o:l auo forin koris'pondons; moust ov it iz wid 
your country, you know. He writes your language 
jo: k\ntri , ju: non. hi: raits jo: Ueygwidj 
quite well and knows something of several other 
kwait wet ond nouz sxmpig ov scvrol \do 
languages besides. I might get another young man 
Lvygwidjiz bisaidz. ai mait get o l n\do j\g mien 
to take his position, but it may be difficult, as it is 
to teik hiz po'zifon , b\t it mei bi: difikolt , oz it iz 
352 
The Thirty-Eighth (38th) Chapter. 
only for six months. You see, I told him that he could 
ounli fd siks m\nps. ju: si:, ai toald him dot hi: kud 
have his position back when he is well again. But tell 
hxv hiz pd'zifdn bxk hwen hi: iz wel o'gein. b\t tel 
me now what work you are used to, and whether you 
mi: nau hwot W9:k ju: a: ju:st tu, ond hwedo ju: 
think you would be able to fill the position.” Storm 
piyk ju: wud bi: eibl td fil do pd'zifdn .” sto:m 
told him then that he was quite used to business 
tould him den ddt hi: wdz kwait ju:st id biznis 
correspondence; he had written all the letters for his 
koris'ponddns; hi: hdd riin o:l dd letdz fd hiz 
manager for some time, and he was used to all office 
mxnidp fd s\m taim, dnd hi: wdz ju:st tu o:l ofis 
work. “I should like very much to stay on over here, 
wo:k. “ai fud laik veri m\tf td stei on ouud hid, 
but don’t you think it will be difficult for my manager 
b\t dount ju: piyk it wit bi: difikdlt fd mai mzenidp 
to find somebody to fill my position so suddenly? 
td faind s\mbodi td fil mai pd'zifdn sou s\dnli? 
somebody = some 
one 
What will he say to it? It is for him to decide.” 
hwot wit hi: sei tu it? it iz fd him td di'said” 
“I will send him a telegram and ask him about it. 
“ai wit send him d teligrxm dnd a:sk him o'baut it . 
If he sends a quick reply by telegram, which is so 
if hi: sendz d kwik ri'plai bai teligrxm, hwitf iz sou 
much quicker than a letter, the whole thing can be 
m\tf kwikd don o leto, do houl pig kon bi: 
353 
Chapter Thirty-Eight (38). 
decided in a day or two.” 
di'saidid in d dei o: tu 
When they had finished their conversation, they went 
hwen dei hdd finift ded konvd'seifdn, dei went 
in to have dinner with the others. 
in Id hxv dind wid di \ddz. 
WORDS: 
branch 
useful 
stay 
conversation 
pay a visit 
expect 
machine 
save 
dinner-jacket 
writer 
wear 
wore 
worn 
upper classes 
middle classes 
introduce 
kindness 
stranger 
fill 
study 
shelf 
book-shelf 
EXERCISE A. 
Storm went to pay a — to the London — of his firm. 
The manager had — him for some days. He showed 
Storm some modern — which he had bought. One of 
them was an — machine. The manager said that the 
machines — much time. Some English — give the 
impression that Englishmen wear — for dinner every 
day. Most of the English, however, are more interested 
in people themselves than in the clothes they —. 
When the four travellers got to the manager’s house, 
he — Storm to his wife. He and Storm went to his — 
to talk together. Did Storm think that he could fill 
the —? Yes, he said that he was used to business —. 
Why sire adding machines so —? Because they — so 
much time. 
EXERCISE B. 
Where had Storm’s manager asked him to go? . . . Why 
had Mr. Edwards expected Storm? . . . What did he 
show him in his office? . . . Had any of the four men 
brought their dinner-jackets along? ... Do the English 
usually wear dinner-jackets for dinner? . . . Into which 
room did Mr. Edwards and Storm go to talk together? 
. . . What was over the fire-place in Mr. Edwards’s 
354 
The Thirty-Eighth (38th) Chapter. 
study? . . . Did Storm think that he would be able to 
fill the position? . . . What did they send to Storm's 
manager to ask if Storm might take the position? . . . 
Why didn't Mr. Edwards get another Englishman to 
fill the position? .. . 
EXERCISE C. 
How to ask and answer questions with 'am, is, are, 
was, were, has been, have been, had been’ and 
verbs in -ing. 
Is John coming home for dinner now? Answer.. . 
Question...? Yes, I am going to town next week. 
Are the four travellers having a good time in Eng¬ 
land? Answer ... Question ...? Yes, they are thinking 
of a trip up the Thames. Was Mr. Edwards expecting 
Storm when he visited his office? Answer . . . Question 
. . .? Yes, the business people were leaving their 
offices when our four travellers arrived in London. 
Were Mr. Miller and the three young men standing 
on deck when the steamer started on the trip to Eng¬ 
land? Answer . . . Question . . .? Yes, Mr. Miller, 
Storm, and Wood were waiting at the railway station 
when Brown arrived. Has Wood been working at the 
office for a year? Answer . . . Question . . .? No, the 
three friends have not been studying English for so 
very long. Had John been skating on the lake in the 
afternoon? Answer . . . Question . . .? Yes, Helen had 
been learning to swim all the summer. Had the young 
men been planning their trip to England for a long 
time? Answer . . . Question . . .? Yes, this time Mrs. 
Miller had been staying at the farm all the time her 
husband was in England. 
fire-place 
writing-table 
correspondence 
position 
somebody 
quick 
telegram 
interest (verb) 
reply 
necessary 
over 
round 
adding machine 
355 
