Chapter Thirty-Nine (39). 
The Thirty-Ninth (39th) Chapter. 
common 
AN ENGLISH HOUSE 
When dinner was over, Mr. Edwards offered to show 
hwen dino wdz ouvd , mistor edwddz ofdd td foil 
his guests the house. “You haven’t seen the inside of 
hiz gests dd haus. “ju: hxvnt si:n di insaid dv 
an English home, have you?” he asked them. “Perhaps 
9n iyglif houm , hxv ju:?” hi: a:skt 69 m. “po'hieps 
it might interest you to see ours. It is a little larger 
it mait intrist ju: to si: auoz. it iz 0 litl la:dp 
than what we might call 'the typical English house’. 
don hwot wi: mait ko:l ‘do tipikol iyglif haus\ 
The typical English house, I should say, has five rooms. 
do tipikol iyglif haus , ai fud sei , hwz faiv ru:mz. 
Four fifths (4/5) of all the small houses that you have 
fo: jifps ov o:l do smo:l hauziz dot ju: hov 
seen on your trips about London have been of that 
si:n on jo: trips obaut l\ndon hov bi:n ov diet 
type, and it is not only in London that this type is 
taip t ond it iz not ounli in l\ndon dot dis taip iz 
usual 
common, but all over England. 
komon , b\t o:l ouvor iyglond. 
“Now, we have three rooms on the ground floor. You 
“nau 9 wi: hiev pri: ru:mz on do graund jlo:. ju: 
have seen two of them, and I will show you the study 
hov si:n tu: ov dom 9 ond ai wit fou ju: do stxdi 
356 
The Thirty-Ninth (39th) Chapter. 
now,” he added, opening the door to his study. ' This 
flaw,” hi: ivdid , ouponiij do do: to hiz si\di. “dis 
is my room, where I can have my books and papers 
iz mai ru:m , hweor ai kon hveo mai buks ond peipoz 
in peace. The maid comes in here about once a week 
in pi:s. do meid k\mz in hio o'baut w\ns o wi:k 
to clean the room, and on that day I can never find 
to kli:n do ru:m , ond on diet dei ai kon novo faind 
any of my things. She has been here to-day, I think, 
eni ou mai piyz. fi: hoz bi:n hio to'dei, ai piijk , 
for I can’t see my cigars anywhere. Well, they must 
for ai ka:nt si: mai si'ga:z enihweo. wel , dei m\st 
be somewhere, so I’ll see if I can find them.” He 
bi: s\mhwed , sou ail si: if ai kon faind dom .” hi: 
looked round the room, found the box of cigars at last 
lukt raund do ru:m , faund do boks ov si'ga:z ot la:st 
on one of the book-shelves, and then offered one to 
on w\n oo do bukfelvz , ond den ofod w\n til 
each of his guests. 
i:lf ov hiz gcsts. 
“These arm-chairs in front of the fire-place look very 
“di:z a:mtfeoz in fr\nt oo do faiopleis luk oeri 
comfortable,” said Wood, and Mr. Edwards replied, 
kxmfotoblsed wud , ond mistor edwodz ri'plaid, 
“Yes, they are very nice to sit in. I have tried to 
“/cs, dei a: oeri nais to sit in. ai hoo traid to 
make my house as comfortable as possible, for it is so 
meik mai ham oz k\mfotobl oz posobU /ar it iz sou 
arm-cfour 
357 
Chapter Thirty-Nine (39). 
to cook = to 
make food ready 
for eating 
the ground floor = 
the floor nearest 
to the ground 
nice, when you come home after a long day’s work, to 
nais, hwen ju: k\m houm a:ftar a log deiz wa:k , la 
sit in a big, comfortable chair, reading the paper or 
sit in a big , k\mfatabl tfea, ri.dig da peipa a:r 
a good book. But come along and see the other rooms 
a gud buk. b\t k\m a'log and si: di \da ru:mz 
of the house. The kitchen, where the food is cooked, 
av da haus. da kit Jin, hwea da ju:d iz kukt , 
is not very interesting to men; it is here at the back 
iz not veri intristig to men; it iz hia at da bwk 
of the house; but next to the kitchen is a small room 
av da haus; b\t nekst ta da kit fin iz a smo:t ru:m 
which is typical of an English house. It is called the 
hwitf iz tipikal av an igglif haus. it iz ko:ld da 
scullery, and it is used for the washing up and for the 
sk \iari, and it iz ju:zd fa da wo Jig a p and la da 
dirty part of the cooking, such as cleaning potatoes 
da:ti pa:t av da kukig , s\tj az klimig pateitouz 
and vegetables.” After having shown them the ground 
and vedjitablz .” a:fta hivvig foun dam da graund 
floor, Mr. Edwards took them upstairs to the first 
/to:, mistar edwadz tuk dam 'a p'steaz ta da fa:st 
floor. “Upstairs we have all the bedrooms and the 
flo:. “'a p'steaz ivi: luvv o:l da bedrumz and da 
bathroom. This big one is our own room; here is one 
ba.prum. dis big w\n iz auar oun ru:m; hiar iz w\n 
for the maid, and this is my daughter’s room. She is 
fa da meid , and dis iz mai do:taz ru:m. Ji: iz 
358 
The Thirty-Ninth (39th) Chapter. 
not at home to-night; these young people are never 
not at houm td'nait; di:z j\?j pi:pl a: nevdr 
at home! She has gone out with some friends to see 
at houm! Ji: hoz gon ant wid s\m frendz id si: 
a picture. That room used to be my son’s, but he is 
d piktfd. dxt ru:m ju:st id bi: mai s\nz , b\t hi: iz 
now married to the daughter of an old friend of mine 
nau maerid Id da do:tdr dv drt ould frend ov main 
and has his own home. It is nice to have an extra 
dnd haez hiz oun houm. it iz nais td hasv an ekstra 
room. Since my son married two years ago, we have 
ru:m. sins mai sah mserid tu: jiaz agou , wi: hav 
often used the room for guests. Well, shall we go 
o:fn ju:zd 5a ru:m fa gests. wel , fal wi: gou 
downstairs again? I think you have seen all there is 
daun'steaz agein? ai piyk ju: hav si:n o:l dear iz 
to be seen upstairs and downstairs now. Perhaps you 
ta bi: si:n a p'steaz and ' daun'steaz nau. pa'hasps ju: 
would like to see the garden, too. You know that, like 
wud laik ta si: 6a ga:dn , tu:. ju: nou dot , laik 
most Englishmen, I love my garden. I love to work to love = to like 
moust iyglifman, ai Iav mai ga:dn. ai Iav ta wa:k very much 
in it in the evening after sitting in the office most of 
in it in di i:unig a:fta sitiy in di of is moust av 
the day. On Sunday mornings I get a lot of work done 
da dei. on s\ndi mo.niyz ai get a lot av wa:k dAn 
in the garden. I am hardly ever ill, and I think it 
in da ga:dn. ai am ha:dli evar il , and ai piyk it 
359 
Chapter Thirty-Nine (39). 
rose 
is my love of garden work that does this. Work like 
iz mai l\v dv ga:dn wd:k 5dt d\z Sis. Wd:k laik 
this is necessary for a business man to keep him well. 
dis iz nesisdri fdv d biznis moon id ki:p him wel. 
I am especially interested in roses. Over here on the 
ai dm is'pefdli inlristid t in rouziz. ouvd hid on dd 
lawns 
south side of the house and along the garden wall, I 
saup said dv dd haus dnd d'loy do ga:dn wo:l, ai 
have my rose-bushes. Aren’t they beauties? 
hcev mai rouzbufiz. a:nt dei bju:tiz? 
“You see that we have a big lawn. Most English people 
“ju: si: ddt wi: hcev d big lo:n. moust iyglif pi:pl 
like to have a piece of ground with grass in their 
laik id hcev d pi:s dv graund wid gra:s in ded 
gardens. As you can see, the lawn goes right up to the 
ga.dnz . dz ju: kon si:, dd lo:n gouz rail a p id dd 
house, so that looking out of the windows, we almost 
haus, sou ddt lukhj aut dv dd windouz, wi:o:lmoust 
feel that we are in the garden. The lawns of many 
fid ddt wi: a:r in do ga:dn. dd lo:nz dv meni 
large old English country-houses are famous all over 
la:dj ould iyglif k\ntrihauziz a: jeimds o:l ouvo 
the world. These old lawns are so famous and well 
dd wddd . di:z ould lo:nz a: sou feimos dnd wel 
known that, when people want to say that a lawn is 
noun ddt, hwen pi:pl wont to sei dot o lo:n iz 
really beautiful, they say it is a 'real English lawn’. 
rioli bjiiddful, dei sei it iz o ‘ridl iyglif lo:n\ 
360 
The Thirty-Ninth (39th) Chapter. 
Some of them are several hundred years old. 
s\m av dam a: sevral hAndrad jiaz oald. 
“At the back of the garden are my fruit trees, and we 
“at da bxk av da ga:dn a: mai fru:t tri:z , and wi: 
also have a small kitchen-garden with a few vegetables. 
o.'lsouhxv a smo:l kitfinga.dn wid a fju: vedjitablz . 
It isn’t of very much use to us, but I get lots of fun 
it iznt av vcri m\tf ju:s til as, b\t ai get lots av f\n 
out of working in it.” On their way back to the house 
aut av wa:ki?) in it.” on dea wei bxk to da haus 
Mr. Edwards showed them the garage and opened the 
mistar edwadz fond dam da gxra:$ and oupand da 
mzm 
& 
door so that they might see his car. It was a beauty, 
do: sou dat dei mail si: hiz ka:. it waz a bju:ti, 
and quite new. “It is a small Morris,” he said. "I 
and kwait nju:. “it iz a smo:l moris ” hi: sed. “ai 
think you know Morris cars in your country, too. It 
piyk ju: noil moris ka:z in jo: kxntri , tu:. it 
is quite famous in other countries for its low price and 
iz kwait feimos in a da kAnlriz jar its lou prais and 
for being cheap to run. I have had other cars before, 
fa bi:iy tfi:p ta rAn . ai hav hxd Ada ka:z bi'jo:, 
to run (here) = 
to drive 
larger ones, but now that we are only three, this one 
la:dp WAnz , bAt nau dat wi: a:r ounli pri: t dis wAn 
is big enough, and, nowadays, cheapness is something 
iz big i '/ ia /, and , nauadeiz , tfi.pnis iz sAmpiy 
one must think of, too. It runs many miles for a few 
WAn mAst piyk ov , tu:. it rAnz meni mailz far a fju: 
361 
Chapter Thirty-Nine (39). 
shillings.” There was a door from the garage into the 
filiyz .” deo woz o do: from do g<era:$ into do 
hall, and they returned to the house by this door. Miss 
ho:l t 2 nd dei rito:nd to do haiis bai dis do:, mis 
Edwards had now returned and was introduced to the 
edwodz hod nan rilo.nd ond woz intro'dju:st to do 
guests by her father, who said, “This is my daughter 
gests bai ho: fa:do , hu: sed , “dis iz mai do:to 
Marion. Marion, this is Mr. Miller, who is staying in 
mierion. moerion , dis iz misto milo , hu: i : steiiy in 
England with his pupils, Mr. Storm, Mr. Wood, and 
iyglond wid hiz pju:plz , misto sto:m f misto wud , ond 
Mr. Brown.” Miss Edwards was a lovely young girl, 
misto braun .” mis edwodz woz o Iwli j\y god , 
rosy = like a rose a typical English beauty, with a rosy face, blue eyes, 
o tipikol iyglif bju.ti, wid o rouzi feis , blu: aiz> 
wavy hair = hair and brown, wavy hair. They sat for some hours talking 
with u/aupc in it 41 " 
ond braun , weivi heo. dei stet fo s\m auoz io:kiy 
in front of the fire in the study. Mr. Edwards was able 
in fr\nt ov do faior in do stxdi. misior edwodz woz eibl 
to tell them about many interesting things in London, 
to tel dom o'baut meni intristiy piyz in l\ndon , 
which he said they must see before leaving, and when 
hwitf hi: sed dei m\st si: bi'fo: li:viy f ond hwen 
at last it was time for them to take their leave, they 
ot la:st it woz taim fo dom to teik deo li:v , dei 
all thanked Mr. and Mrs. Edwards as well as Miss 
o:l pceykt mistor ond misiz edwodz oz wet oz mis 
362 
The Thirty-Ninth (39th) Chapter. 
Edwards for the pleasant evening they had spent in 
edwadz fa da pleznt i:vnirj dei had spent in 
their home. They said that they would never forget 
dea houm. dei sed dat dei wild neva fa'get 
the kindness that had been shown them‘when they 
da kciindnis dat had bi:n foun dam hwen dei 
came as strangers to their home, and they added that 
keim az streindpz ta dea houm , and dei xdid dat 
they would write them a letter when they got back 
dei wild rait dam a leta hwen dei got bxk 
to their own country. 
ta dear oun kxntri. 
EXERCISE A. 
Mr. Edwards said that the — English house has five 
rooms. He could not find his cigars —, because the 
maid had just been in to — his room. At last he found 
them on one of the —. Mr. Edwards liked a — chair 
to sit in when he came home from his office work. The 
food is — in the —, but the washing up is done in 
the —. Mr. and Mrs. Edwards had a son who was — 
to the daughter of an old friend of theirs. The daughter 
was not at home; she had gone to see a — with some 
friends. She returned later and was — to the guests 
by her father. 
In the garden was a big — with beautiful grass. There 
were also many beautiful flowers, especially —. Mr. 
Edwards called his rose-bushes—. After they had seen 
the garden, they went to the — and had a look at Mr. 
Edwards’s car. He said that it was famous for its low 
WORDS: 
offer 
inside 
typical 
type 
clean 
anywhere 
arm-chair 
comfortable 
cook 
cooking 
scullery 
washing up 
upstairs 
downstairs 
married 
363 
Chapter Thirty-Nine (39). 
marry 
love 
love (verb) 
rose 
rose-bush 
rosy 
beauty 
lawn 
famous 
fun 
ground 
garage 
car 
run 
cheapness 
wavy 
common 
leave 
Miss 
price and for being — to run, not only in England, 
but also in other countries. When at last they took 
their —, they thanked Mr. and Mrs. Edwards for the 
— evening. 
EXERCISE B. 
How many rooms did the Edwards family have down¬ 
stairs, and how many upstairs? . . . How many times 
a week did the maid get into the study to clean the 
room? . . . What did Mr. Edwards offer his guests after 
he had shown them his study? . . . What is the scullery 
used for in a typical English house? . . . What did Mr. 
and Mrs. Edwards use the extra room for after their son 
had married? . . . What good did Mr. Edwards get out 
of his love of garden work? . . . Where did he have his 
roses? . . . Where were the fruit trees to be found? . . . 
Why did the family have such a small car now? . . . 
How did Mr. Edwards introduce his daughter to the 
guests? . . . 
fifth 
EXERCISE C. 
How to ask and answer questions with 'am, is, are, 
was, were, has been, have been, had been, will be’ and 
verbs in -ed, etc. 
Is Mr. Edwards’s study cleaned every day? Answer . . . 
Question . . .? Yes, I am often invited to my manager’s 
home for dinner. Were the guests introduced to Mrs. 
Edwards? Answer . . . Question . . .? Yes, all the rooms 
in the house were shown to the guests. Are the lawns 
of English country-houses known all over the world? 
Answer . . . Question . . .? Yes, money for hospital 
364 
The Thirty-Ninth (39th) Chapter. 
work is collected on special days. Was Storm greeted 
kindly by Mr. Edwards when he paid him a visit at 
his office? Answer . . . Question . . .? No, his friends 
were also invited to dinner at Mr. Edwards’s house. 
Was William called the Conqueror before or after he 
came to England? Answer . . . Question . . .? Yes, 
Egbert became king of all England. Has England been 
conquered by any nation since the Battle of Hastings? 
Answer . . . Question . . .? No, the two other young 
men have not been asked to stay in England for another 
six months. Had the travellers been shown the inside 
of an English home before they were invited to dinner 
at Mr. and Mrs. Edwards’s? Answer . . . Question . . .? 
No, cigars had not been offered to the guests before 
they entered the study. Will Storm be allowed by 
his manager to stay in England for another six months, 
do you think? Answer . . . Question . . .? Yes, the 
question about his stay will be decided very quickly, I 
think. 
365 
