Chapter Four (4). 
The Fourth (4th) Chapter. 
COUNTRIES AND CITIES 
Mr. and Mrs. Smith and their three children live in 
mist a end misiz smip and dea pri: tfildrdn liv in 
England. They live in a house. Has their house a 
iygland. dei liv in a haus. hcez dea haus a 
window? Yes, their house has many windows. How 
windou? jes, dea haus hcez meni windouz. hau 
many windows has their house? It has eight windows. 
meni windouz hcez dea haus? it hcez eit windouz. 
Has their house a door? Yes, it has two doors. It 
hcez dea haus a da:? jes, it hcez tu: da:z. it 
has also a roof. The roof is the top of the house. 
hcez a:lsou a ru:f. da ru:f iz da tap av da haus. 
What is the top of the house? The top of the house 
hwat iz da tap av da haus? da tap av da haus 
is the roof. The house has four walls. Has the 
iz da ru:f. da haus hcez fa: wa:lz. hcez da 
house a fifth wall? No, it has only four walls. The 
haus a fifp wa:l? nou, it hcez ounli fa: wa:lz. da 
windows and the doors are in the walls. 
windouz and da da:z a: in da wa.lz. 
Where is London? London is in England. Where is 
hwear iz lAndan? I And an iz in iy gland. hwear iz 
Paris? Paris is in France. Where is Stockholm? 
pceris? pceris iz in fra:ns. hwear iz stakhoum? 
29 
Chapter Four (4). 
Stockholm is in Sweden. Where is Berlin? Berlin is 
st ok lion w iz in swi.'dn. hive dr iz bai'lin? ba:'lin iz 
in Germany. Where is Copenhagen? Copenhagen is 
in dy.mani. hwear iz koupriheigan? koupn'heigan iz 
in Denmark. Where is Oslo? Oslo is in Norway. 
in dennm:k. hwear iz azlont azlou iz in na:wei. 
Where is Moscow? Moscow is in Russia. Where is 
hwear iz mask on? maskou iz in rAfa. Invear iz 
one girl 
two girls 
one boy 
two boys 
one city 
two cities 
one country 
two countries 
Helsinki (Helsingfors)? Helsinki is in Finland. Eng- 
helsiyki (helsiyfa:z)f helsiyki iz in f inland. in¬ 
land is a country. Russia is a country. England and 
gland iz a kAtitri. r\ja iz a kAtitri. itjgland and 
Russia are two countries. 
r\ja a: tu: kxntriz. , 
Mr. and Mrs. Smith and their children live in London. 
mista and misiz smip and dea tjildran liv in Lxndan. 
London is a city. Copenhagen is also a city. London 
Ixndan iz a siti . koupn'heigan iz a:Ison a siti. lxndan 
Baby = the baby 
Helen and Baby 
are sisters. 
Helen and the baby 
are sisters. 
as - as 
(not) so - as 
Mr. Smith is 
as big as his 
father. 
Baby is not so 
big as Helen. 
and Copenhagen are two cities. There are many 
and koupn'heigan a: tu: sitiz. dear a: mcni 
houses in London. London is a big city. There are 
hauziz in l And an. I And an iz a big siti. dear a: 
also many houses in Copenhagen. Copenhagen is also 
a:lsou meni hauziz in koupn'heigan. koupn'heigan iz a.lsou 
a big city, but Copenhagen is not so big a city as London. 
a big siti, b.xt koupn'heigan iz nat sou big a siti ccz l And an. 
Helen is a big girl, but she is not so big as John. Is 
hclin iz a big ga:l, bxt ji: iz nat sou big ccz d$an. iz 
30 
The Fourth (4th) Chapter. 
Baby as big as Helen? No, Baby is not so big as Helen; 
beibi cez big cez helin? nou, beibi iz rut sou big cez helin; 
she is only a small girl. Is John as big as his father? 
ji: iz ounli a sma:l ga:l. iz dyn cez big cez hiz fa:da? 
No, John is not so big as his father. Is Helen as big 
nou, dyn iz rut sou big cez hiz fa:da. iz helin cez big 
as her mother? No, Helen is not so big as her mother. 
cez ha: ntAdaf nou, helin iz rut sou big cez ha: mAda. 
John is bigger than Helen, and Mrs. Smith is bigger 
dyn iz big a dcen helin, and misiz smip iz big a 
than John. Which is the biggest of the three children? 
dcen dyn. hwitf iz da bigist av da pri: tfildranf 
John is the biggest. Which is the biggest of the cities 
dyn iz da bigist. hwitf iz da bigist av da sitiz 
in Europe? London is the biggest city in Europe. 
in juarap? Undan iz da bigist siti in juarap. 
England is a country in Europe. London is the biggest 
iygland iz a kAntri in jtlarap. I And an iz da bigist 
city in England. Sweden is a country in Europe. Stock- 
siti in iygland. swi:dn iz a kAntri in juarap. stak- 
holm is the biggest city in Sweden. 
hourn iz da bigist siti in swi:dn. 
Mr. Smith is English. He lives in England. Mrs. Smith 
rnista smip iz iyglif. hi: livz in iygland. misiz smip 
is English. She lives in England. Their children are 
iz iyglif . fi: livz in iygland. dea tfildran a: 
English. They live in England. The English live in 
iyglif. dei liv in iygland. di iyglif liv in 
big 
bigger 
biggest 
Helen is a big girl. 
John is bigger 
than Helen. 
John is the biggest 
of the children. 
which ... of? 
= which of? 
Which is the 
biggest of the 
three children? 
= Which of the 
three children is 
the biggest? 
31 
Chapter Four (4). 
lives 
live 
John lives in a 
house. 
John and Helen 
live in a house. 
England. The Danes live in Denmark. The Finlanders 
iy gland. da deins liv in denma:k. da finlandas 
live in Finland. The Russians live in Russia. The 
liv in f inland. da rAfans liv in rAfa. da 
Swedes live in Sweden. The Norwegians live in Norway. 
swi'.dz liv in swi:dn. da no:'wi:dyns liv in no.wei. 
The Germans live in Germany. The French live in 
da dy.mans liv in dy.mani. da frenf liv in 
France. 
fra: ns. 
England is bigger than Denmark, but it is not so big as 
iy gland is big a dcen denma:k, bAt it is not sou big cos 
France. Norway is bigger than Denmark, but it is not 
fra: ns. no:wei is big a dcen denma:k, bAt it is not 
so big as Sweden. The house of Mr. and Mrs. Smith 
sou big ces swi:dn. da haus av mista and misis smip 
is not a big house; it is a small house. Baby is not a 
is not a big haus; it is a smo:l haus. beibi is not a 
big girl; she is only a small girl. Helen is smaller than 
big ga:l; fi: is ounli a smo:l ga:l. helin is smo:la dcen 
John, and John is smaller than his father. Helen is 
dyn, and dyn is sma:la dcen his fa:da. helin is 
smaller than her mother. There are many houses in 
situ:la dcen ha: niAda. dear a: meni hausis in 
a big city. There are many big cities in a big country. 
a big siti. dear a: meni big sitis in a big kAntri. 
32 
Denmark is not a big country; it is only a small country. 
dcnma:k is not a big kAntri ; it is ounli a sma:l kAntri. 
The Fourth (4th) Chapter. 
There are not many big cities in Denmark. 
dear a: not meni big sitiz in denma:k. 
Mr. Smith is a man; his father is also a man. Mr. 
mista smip iz a man; hiz fa:da iz o:\sou a mcen . mista 
Smith and his father are two men. Mrs. Smith is a 
smip and hiz fa:da a: tu: men. misiz smip iz a 
woman; her sister is also a woman. Mrs. Smith and her 
wuman; ha: sista iz o:lsou a wuman. misiz smip and ha: 
sister are two women. Boys and girls are children. 
sista a: tu: wimin. boiz and ga:lz a: tjildran. 
Men, women, and children are people (persons). There 
men, wimin, and tjildran a: pi:pi (pa:snz). dear 
are many people in England. How many people are 
a: meni pi: pi in ifjgland. hau meni pi: pi a: 
there in England? There are forty-five (45) million people 
dea in ifjglandt dear a: fo:tifaiv miljan pi:pl 
in England. How many people are there in Finland? 
in ifjgland. hau meni pi:pl a: dea in f inland f 
There are more than three million people in Finland. 
dear a: mo: dan pri: mil j an pi:pl in f inland. 
There are more people in England than in Denmark. 
dear a: mo: pi: pi in iy gland dan in denma:k. 
There are not so many people in Denmark as in Sweden. 
dear a: not sou meni pi:pl in denma:k az in swi:dn. 
There are six million people in Sweden. There are 
dear a: siks miljan pi: pi in swi:dn. dear a: 
more Swedes than Danes. 
mo: swi:dz dan deinz. 
one man [man] 
two men [men] 
one woman 
[wuman] 
two women 
[wimin] 
33 
Chapter Four (4). 
What people live in England? The English live in 
hwat pi: pi liv in iy gland? di iyglif liv in 
England. What people live in France? The French 
iygland. hwat pi: pi liv in fra:nsf da. frenf 
live in France. What people live in Russia? The 
liv in fra.ns. hunt pi:pl liv in r\jaf da 
Russians live in Russia. 
rAfanz liv in r\ja. 
Mr. and Mrs. Smith have a son. Have they more than 
mist a and misiz smip hcev a sau. hcev dei ma: dean 
one child? Yes, they have three children. They have 
wah tfaild? jes, dei hcev pri: tjildran. dei hcev 
two girls, but only one boy. They have more girls than 
tu: ga:lz, bAt ounliwAn bai. dei hcev ma: ga:lz deen 
boys. Has John more than two sisters? No, he has 
baiz. hcez d$an ma: deen tu: sistazf non , hi: hcez 
only two sisters. Are there more than four persons in 
ounli tu: sistaz. a: dea ma: deen fa: pa:snz in 
the family? Yes, there are five persons in the family. 
da fcemilif jes, dear a: faiv pa:snz in da feemili. 
What more persons are there in the family than the 
hwat ma: pa:snz a: dea in da feemili deen da 
father and the mother? There are the three children. 
fa:da and da niAdat dear a: da pri: tfildran . 
EXERCISE A. 
Mr. and Mrs. Smith and their three children — in Eng¬ 
land. They — in a house. Mr. Smith — in England. 
34 
The Fourth (4th) Chapter. 
The — of Mr. and Mrs. Smith has eight windows. The 
— of the house are in the walls. The — has two doors. 
The two — of the house are in the —. The house has 
four —. The windows and the doors are in the —. The 
— is the top of the house. The — of the house is the 
roof. 
England is a —. Sweden is also a —. London is a —. 
Stockholm is also a —. London and Stockholm are 
two —. There are many — in London. London has 
— houses. Denmark is a country in —. Russia is also 
a country in —. Mr. Smith and his father are two —. 
Mrs. Smith and her sister are two —. The mother of 
Mrs. Smith is also a —. London is a — city. Copen¬ 
hagen is also a — city, but Copenhagen is not so big a 
city — London. Helen is a big girl, but she is- 
big as John. 
Is Baby — big — Helen? No, Baby is-big as 
Helen. Is John — big — his father? No, John is — 
— big — his father. John is bigger — Helen, and Mrs. 
Smith is bigger — John. Helen is — than John. — 
is the biggest of the three children? John is the — of 
the three children. — is the biggest of the cities in 
Europe? London is the — city in Europe. — is the 
name of the biggest city in Norway? It is —. Where 
— London? London is in —. — is Paris? Paris is 
in —. — is Stockholm? Stockholm is in —. — is 
Berlin? Berlin is in —. — is Moscow? Moscow is 
in —. 
WORDS: 
live 
house 
window 
door 
wall 
roof 
top 
where? 
France 
French 
Sweden 
Swede 
Germany 
German 
Denmark 
Dane 
Norway 
Norwegian 
Europe 
England 
English 
Russia 
Russian 
Finland 
Finlander 
country 
city 
Paris 
Stockholm 
Berlin 
Oslo 
Helsinki 
Helsingfors 
Copenhagen 
Moscow 
35 
Chapter Four (4). 
London 
big 
so 
as 
small 
men 
women 
people 
forty-five 
million 
more 
EXERCISE B. 
What people live in England? ... What people live in 
Russia? ... What people live in Sweden? ... Is England 
bigger than Denmark? ... Is England bigger than 
France? ... Is Norway bigger than Sweden? ... What 
people live in Norway? ... Is Russia bigger than 
Germany? ... What people live in Germany? ... What 
people live in France? ... Is the house of Mr. and Mrs. 
Smith a big house? ... Is Baby a big girl? ... Is Helen 
smaller than John? ... Is Helen bigger than her mother? 
... What are boys and girls? ... What are men, women, 
and children? ... Are there many people in England? 
... How many people are there in Finland? ... Are 
there more people in Denmark than in Sweden? ... 
Are there more people in England than in Denmark? 
... Are there more Danes than Swedes? ... How many 
boys and girls have Mr. and Mrs. Smith? ... 
36 
