Chapter Forty (40). 
The Fortieth (40th) Chapter. 
method = the 
to do things 
THE DEPARTURE 
The next few days Storm woke up every morning 
do nekst fju: deiz sto:m wouk a p evri momiy 
expecting a telephone call from Mr. Edwards, and at 
ikspektiy o tclifoun ko:l from mistdr edwodz, and ot 
last, when Storm had almost given up hope, Mr. Ed- 
la:st, hwcn sto:m hdd odmoust givn a p houp , mistdr ed- 
wards called him on the telephone, “Hallo, this is 
Wddz ko:ld him on do telifoun , “ ho'lou , dis iz 
Edwards speaking. Is Mr. Storm there?” 
edwodz spi:kiy. iz misto sto:m deo?” 
“Just a minute, Mr. Edwards, and I will call him to 
“d$Ast o minit , mistor edwodz , ond ai wil ko:l him to 
the telephone,” replied Brown, who had answered the 
do telifoun ,” ri'plaid braun, hu: hod a:nsod do 
telephone. Storm came to the telephone and was told 
telifoun. sh:m keim to do telifoun ond woz tould 
some very good news. His manager had thought it was 
sxm veri gud nju:z. hiz mienidp hod pod it woz 
a good idea and was very pleased that one of his young 
o gud ai'dio ond woz veri pli:zd dot w\n ov hiz 
men should have this chance of studying English 
men fud hxv dis tfa:ns ov stxdiiy ^V9^f 
way 
business methods. It would be very useful for the firm 
biznis mepodz. it wud bi: veri ju:sful fo do fo:m 
The Fortieth (40th) Chapter. 
to have a man whose knowledge of English was good, 
to hxv o mien hu:z nolid j ov iyglif woz gad , 
and who also had some knowledge of the English 
ond hu: o:lsou hoed s\m nolid$ ov di iyglif 
method of doing business. 
mepod ov du:iy biznis. 
During the last two or three days they were in London. 
djuoriy do la:st fu: o: pri: deiz iei wo:r in l\ndon, 
they were very busy, because there was not much time 
dei wo: vcri bizi y bi'koz deo woz not mxtf taim 
before their departure, and there were so many things 
bifo: deo di'pa.tjo , ond deo wo: sou meni piyz 
they wanted to see before they left. On the tfery last 
dei wontid to si: bifo: dei left, on do veri la:st 
day, they went out to buy some small presents for 
dei , dei went aut to bai s\m smo:l preznts fo 
their relations and friends at home. Wood had promised 
deo ri'leifonz ond frendz ot houm. wud hod promist 
his sister to bring something nice home for her. He 
hiz sisto to brig s\mpiy nais houm fo: ho:, hi: 
had not forgotten his promise, but as he was not used 
hod not fo'gotn hiz promis 9 b\t oz hi: woz not ju:st 
to buying presents for young ladies, the other three went 
to baiiy preznts fo f\y leidiz, di Ado pri: went 
along with him to help him. They knew Selfridge’s, 
o'log wid him to help him. dei nfu: selfridjiz, 
where they had bought sticks, handkerchiefs, and 
hweo dei hod bo:t stiks , hxykotfifs , ond 
knowledge = that 
which a man 
knows 
departure = going 
away 
relations 
Father, mother, 
sisters, brothers, 
uncles, aunts, etc., 
are relations. 
a saleswoman = a 
woman who sells 
things at a shop 
cigarettes, so they went there again. In the part of the 
sigd'rets , sou iei went ieor o'gein. in id pad dv id 
shop where women’s things are sold, they looked at 
fop hwed wiminz pigz a: soutd, iei lukt dt 
all sorts of articles, but could not decide what to buy. 
,9.7 sods ov adiktz , b\t kud not disaid hwot to bai. 
At last they asked one of the young ladies to help them. 
dt Ia:st iei a:skt w\n dv id jleidiz td help idm. 
She first asked what sort of things the young lady 
fi: fd:st a:skt hwot sod ov piyz id j\y leidi 
would be interested in. “Oh, something to wear, I 
wud bi: intristid in . “ou, s\mpig to wed , ai 
should think,” said Wood. “What size clothes does she 
fud piyksed wud. “hwot saiz k'louiz d\z fi: 
take?” Wood had no idea of the *size of his sister’s 
/eiTc?” wud heed nou ai'dio ov id saiz ov hiz sistoz 
clothes. “Well, perhaps you can tell me whether the 
klouiz. “ wel, po'heeps ju: kon tel mi: hweio id 
young lady is big or small, then,” said the saleswoman. 
j\y leidi iz big o: smod , ien," sed id seilzwumon. 
“She is neither big nor small; she is just like most 
t€ fi: iz naiid big no: smod; fi: iz d$\st laik moust 
other girls.” That did not help very much to give the 
a id godz .” iect did not help veri m\tf to giv id 
saleswoman an idea of Miss Wood’s size, so she said, 
seilzwumon on ai'dio ov mis wudz saiz , sou fi: sed , 
“I don’t think that you should buy clothes for her, if 
“aidount piyk iot ju: fud bai klouiz jo: ho:, if 
The Fortieth (40th) Chapter. 
you don’t know the size. She wouldn’t be pleased if 
ju: douni non da saiz. fi: wudnt bi: pli.zd if 
you bought something which was either too small or 
ju: bo:t SAmpiy hwitf Wdz aids tu: smo:l o: 
too big for her, because then she would not be able 
tu: big fo: ha:, bi'koz den fi: wad not bi: eibl 
to wear it. But we have many other things, hand- 
ta wear it. b\t wi: hxv meni Ada pirjz , hxnd - 
bags, for example. We have some very fine leather 
bxgz, far ig'za:mpi wi: haw SAm veri fain leda 
bags here.” “What sort of leather is this?” Wood 
bxgz hia." “hwot. so:t av ledar iz bis?” wud 
asked, when he was shown the bags. “It is goatskin,” 
a:skt , hwen hi: waz foun da bxgz. “it iz goutskin ,” 
the saleswoman answered; “the bags cost only forty 
da seilzwuman a:nsad; “da bxgz kost ounli fo:ti 
shillings apiece.” 
filiyz a'pi.s” 
“That is quite cheap,” Wood said to the others. “At 
“dxt iz kwait tfi:pwild sed ta di a daz. “at 
home we shouldn’t be able to get bags of goatskin as 
houm wi: fudnt bi: eibl ta get bxgz av goutskin az 
cheap as that. Goatskin is a very fine sort of leather 
tfi:p az dxt. goutskin iz a veri fain so:t av leda 
and is usually very expensive. I once bought a bag 
and iz ju:$uali veri iks'pensiv . ai WAns bo:t a bseg 
for an aunt or some other relation at home, and that 
far an a:nt o: SAm Ada ri'leifan at houm , and dxt 
goatskin = the 
skin of goats 
apiece = for each 
to take leave of = 
to say good-bye to 
fare = price of 
ticket 
was much more expensive. Bags of this sort would 
waz mxtf mo:r iks'pensiv. baegz av dis so:t wild 
cost at least sixty shillings apiece. I think I will take 
kost at li:st siksli filigz api:s. ai piyk ai wil teik 
one of them.” 
wxn av dam .” 
The hour of their departure from England had arrived. 
di auar av dea di'pa:tfa fram iygland had araivd. 
The other three were sorry to take leave of Storm, for 
di a da pri: wa: sori ta ieik li:v av sto:m 9 fa 
they had had such a lovely time together. Wood said 
dei had heed sxtf a Ixvli laim ta'geda. wild sed 
that he was jealous of his friend. “I wish I was the 
dat hi: waz djelas av hiz frend . “ai wif ai waz da 
one to stay over here for another six months,” he said, 
war ta stei oiiva hia far ai\\da siks mxnps ” hi: sed , 
“you seem to be getting all the fun. First, your firm 
“ju: si:m ta bi: getig o:l da f\n. fa:st 9 jo: fa:m 
pays your fare to England, and the ticket from our 
peiz jo: fea tu iygland , and da tikit fram aua 
home town to London is not cheap; and now they let 
houm taun ta txndan iz not tfi:p; and nau dei let 
you stay here for another six months. I wish I 
ju: stei hia far a'nxda siks mxnps. ai wif ai 
worked for a firm that would have paid my fare, then 
wa:kt far a fa:m dat wud hav peid mai fea t den 
I should not have had to think of the ticket!” 
ai fud not hav haed ta pigk av da tikitr 
The Fortieth (40th) Chapter. 
But Storm knew that his friend was not really jealous 
b\t sto:m niu: dat hiz frend waz not rioli djelas 
of him, but only pleased that this chance should have 
ov him , b\t ounli pli:zd dat dis tja:ns Jud hav 
been offered him. Storm went with them to the station 
bi:n of ad him. sh:m went wid dam ta da steifan 
to wish them a pleasant trip back. On the way they 
ta wif dam a pleznt trip boek. on da wei dei 
spoke of all the things they had seen and of the places 
spouk av o:l da piyz dei had si:n and av da pleisiz 
they had not yet been to. 
dei had not jet bi:n tu. 
“You know,” said Mr. Miller, “there are many people 
“ ju: nou” sed mista mila , ,( dear a: meni pi:pl 
who think that when they have seen the capital of a 
hu: pirjk dot hwen dei hav si:n da kaepital av a 
country, they have seen everything the country has to 
kxnlri , dei hav si:n evripig da k\ntri haez ta 
show them. We have visited London, the capital of 
fou dam. wi: hav vizitid l\ndan , da kaepital av 
England, but we must not think that this is the whole 
iygland, b\t wi: m\st not piyk dat dis iz da houl 
of England. There are many other large cities of great 
av iygland. dear a: meni \da la:dy sitiz av greit 
importance in England, such as Birmingham, Sheffield, 
im'po.tans in iygland, s\tf az ba.miyam , fefi:ld 9 
Manchester, and Newcastle. All these towns are very 
maentfista , and nju:ka:sl. o:l di:z taunz a: veri 
important and would be very interesting to visit. You 
im'po:tant and wud bi: veri intristiy ta vizit. ju: 
all know why they are of such great importance?” 
o:l nou hwai iei a:r dv s\tf greit im'po.tans?'* 
“Birmingham and Sheffield are famous for their metal 
“ ba:miyam dnd fefi.ld a: leimas fa ded metl 
articles,” said Wood. “We have some knives at home 
a:tiklz ,” sed wud . “wi: hcev s\m naivz dt houm 
made of Sheffield steel.” 
meid dv fefidd sti:l” 
“Yes,” said Mr. Miller, “steel is a very hard metal, and 
“/es,” sed mistd mild , “sti:l iz d veri ha:d metl, dnd 
the best knives are always made of steel. The best 
dd best naivz a:r o:lwdz meid dv sti:L id best 
trains, machines, bicycles, steamers, etc., are made of 
treinz , md'fimz , baisiklz , sti:mdz , itsetrd , a: meid av 
steel. Sometimes, however, it would be too expensive 
sti:l. s\mtaimz , hau'evd , it wud bi: tu: iks'pensiv 
to use steel to make these things, so iron is used 
id ju:z sti:l ta meik ii:z piyz , sou aian iz ju:zd 
instead. Steel is really iron, but iron that has been 
insied. sti:l iz riali aian, b\C aian iat haz bi:n 
made very hard. That is the reason why steel is more 
meid veri ha:d. ixl iz id ri:zn hwai sti:l iz mo:r 
expensive. 
iks'pensiv . 
“In nearly all English houses there are fire-places. In 
“in niali o:l iyglif hauziz dear a: faiapleisiz. in 
The Fortieth (40th) Chapter. 
winter it is very comfortable to sit in front of the fire. 
wintd it iz veri kAmjotobl to sit in jr\nt dv do faio. 
The English nearly always use coal for their fires. 
di iyglif nioli o:lwdz ju:z koul /a deo fa&z. 
Usually, they have had more than enough coal for their 
ju:$uoli t dci hdv h&d mo: don i'n\f koul jo deor 
own houses, trains, steamers, etc., so that they have been 
oun hauzizy treinz, sti:moz , it'setro , sou dot dei hov bi:n 
able export coal to other countries. Newcastle is a 
eibl tu eks'pod koul tu \do kxntriz. nju:ka:sl iz a 
very important coal town, from which much coal has 
veri impo.tont koul taun , from hwitf m\tf koul hoz 
been exported to foreign countries. Newcastle, however, 
bi:n ekspo.tid to forin k\ntriz. nju:ka:sl , hatievo, 
is also a very important town for the building of ships. 
izodsouo veri im po.tont taun jo 5o bildiy ov Jips . 
Manchester, as you will all remember, is famous for 
meenlfislo , oz ju: wil o:l ri'membo , iz jeimos for 
its cotton articles, and many things made of cotton are 
its kotn a:tiklz , ond meni piyz meid ov kotn a:r 
exported to the whole world. In our shops at home it 
eks'po:tid to do houl wo:ld . in auo fops ot houm it 
is also possible to buy cotton articles made in Man- 
iz o:lsou posobl to bai kotn a:tiklz meid in mren- 
chester. You will all understand, then, that there is 
tfisto . ju: wil o:l a ndo'stxnd, den , dot deor iz 
much more to be seen in England. But we have been 
m\tf mo: to bi: si:n in iyglond. b\t wi: hov bi:n 
to export = to sell 
to a foreign coun¬ 
try 
to remember (here) 
= to mention 
busy every second of our visit, and I think it is the 
bizi evri sekond ov auo vizit , dnd ai pigk it iz do 
hope of all of us to be able to return to England some 
houp ov o:l ov as td bi: cibl Id ritom tv hjglond s\m 
other time. Now I see that it is time for the train 
Add taim. nau ai si: dot it iz taim fd dd trein 
to start, so we shall have to say good-bye to Storm.” 
td sta:U sou wi: fdl hsev td sei gud'bai td sto:m." 
They shouted together, “Good-bye, Sturm!” 
dei fautid to'gedo ,' “'gud'bai, sto:m!” 
Storm: “Good-bye, a pleasant trip, and remember me 
sto:m: “gud'bai , a pleznt trip , dnd ri'membo mi: 
to your families at home!” 
td jo: faemiliz ot houm /” 
Storm waved to his friends as long as he could see 
sto:m weivd td hiz frendz oz log oz hi: kud si: 
them. Then he left the station with mixed feelings. 
bom . den hi: left do steifon wid mikst fi:ligz . 
He was sorry that his friends had gone, and yet at 
hi: woz sori dot hiz frendz hod gon , ond jet ot 
the same time he was very happy to be able to stay 
do seim taim hi: woz veri hxpi to bi: eibl to stei 
on for some time in England. He returned slowly to 
on jo SAm taim in igglond. hi: ri'tomd slouli to 
the hotel, thinking of his friends and of his relations 
do hou'tel , pigkig ov hiz frend? ond ov hiz ri'leifonz 
at home. 
ot houm. 
The Fortieth (40th) Chapter. 
EXERCISE A. 
went out to buy some presents for their friends and 
what-his sister took, he decided to buy a bag of 
is usually very expensive. The bags which she showed 
EXERCISE B. 
Why was Storm’s manager pleased that Storm had 
been offered a position in the London branch of the 
thing that Storm said to his friends before the train 
WORDS: 
telephone 
call 
hope 
departure 
relation 
promise (verb) 
promise 
sort 
size 
saleswoman 
hand-bag 
leather 
goat 
goatskin 
skin 
apiece 
jealous 
fare 
capital 
importance 
metal 
steel 
iron 
coal 
export 
knowledge 
method 
hard 
remember 
EXERCISE C. 
How to ask and answer questions with ‘must’ 
or 'have to\ 
pay duty on such things as wine or silk. Do you have 
to show your passports to get into England? Answer 
to England. Did the young men have to do much work 
fare. Has Wood had to take extra work in the evenings 
Mrs. Miller has not had to stay at home every time 
Mr. Miller has been to England; only this year, because 
their son is so small. Will Storm have to return home 
others will have to go back when their holidays are 
over. Would Wood have had to stay at home if he 
her son had been older, Mrs. Miller would not have 
had to stay at home. Must English children go to 
to school after they are fifteen years old. Must all 
pens and ink at school; the small children write with 
pencils. 
