Chapter Forty-One (41). 
The Forty-First (41st) Chapter. 
THE FIRST DAY AT THE OFFICE 
The morning after the departure of his friends, Storm 
6d mo.niy a: I to bd di'pa:tfor ov hiz frendz , sto:m 
went by bus to his new office, where he was at once 
went bai b\s td hiz nju: ofis, hwed hi: WdZ dt w\ns 
taken in to see the manager. “Good morning, sir,” 
teikn in td si: 5d mxnidp. “gud mo:nig t 5a:,” 
Storm said as he entered the manager’s office: “It is 
sto:m sed dz hi: entdd bd maenidpz ofis. “it iz 
really a great pleasure to me to start working here.” 
ridli d grcit plep td mi: td sta:t wo:kiy hid." 
“Good morning, Storm,” answered the manager, “it is 
“gud mo:nig y sto:m ,” a:nsdd bd maenidp , “it iz 
also a pleasure to us to have you work for us.” “I am 
o:lsou d plep tu as td hsev ju: wd:k fdr as.” “ai dm 
not only pleased to start here, but I am glad to remain 
not ounli pli:zd td sta:t hid , bdt ai dm glaed td ri'mein 
in London. There are still so many things that I wish 
in l\nddn. bed stil sou meni piyz bdt ai wif 
to see, and now that I am going to remain here for 
td si: f ond nau bdt ai om gouiy to ri'mein hid fdr 
another five or six months, it will be possible for me to 
on Abo faiv d siks m\nps , it wit bi: posobl fd mi: td 
see them all,” Storm continued. “I think you said it 
si: bom o:l ,” sto:m kon'tinju:d. “ai piyk ju: sed it 
It is a great 
pleasure to me = 
I am very pleased. 
remain = stay 
n/i 
matter = thing 
receive = get 
before receiving 
(here) = before 
you receive 
was your first visit to a foreign country. Don’t you 
woz jo: fo:st vizit tu o forin kxntri. dount ju: 
think that you will miss many things that you were 
piyk dot ju: wil mis meni pirjz dot ju: wo: 
used to at home?” asked the manager. “Yes,” said 
ju:st tu ot houm?** a:skt do mxnidp. “jes** sed 
Storm, “there are some things at home that I shall 
sto:m, “deo s\m piyz ot houm dot ai fol 
miss in England. There will, perhaps, also be things 
mis in iyglond. deo wil, pohxps, o:lsou bi: piyz 
that will seem strange to me, because they are different 
dot wil si:m streind$ to mi:, bi'koz dei a: dijront 
from what I am used to. But it will be very interesting 
from hwot ai om ju:st tu . bot it wil bi: veri intristiy 
to see things that are different, things that are strange 
to si: piyz dot a: dijront , piyz dot a: streindj 
to me.” 
to mi:.** 
“There is another matter that I should like to mention,” 
“doz o'nxdo mxto dot ai fod laik to menfon,** 
said the manager. “You will not receive your salary 
sed do mxnidp. “ju: wil not ri'si:v jo: sxlori 
until the end of the month. If you have to wait four 
\n'til di end ov do m\np. if ju: hxv to weit jo: 
weeks before receiving any money, will you have 
wi:ks bi'jo: ri'si:vir) eni m\ni, wil ju: hxv 
enough?” “No,” said Storm, “I must find a room, and 
i'n\f?** “nou,** sed sto:m , “ai most faind o ru:m , ond 
The Forty-First (41st) Chapter. 
it will be necessary to pay for it in advance when I 
it wil bi: nesisdri td pei for it in od'va:ns hwen ai 
take it.” “There will be other things, too,” said the 
teik it .” “ded wil bi: \do piyz, fu:,” sed dd 
manager, “so it will be necessary for you to have some 
msenidp , "sou it wil bi: nesisdri jo ju: to hsev sdm 
money. If you like, you may have part of your salary 
m\ni. if ju: laik, ju: mei hsev pa:t du jo: sselori 
in advance, and you might just as well have the money 
in dd'vcr.ns , ond ju: mait dpst oz wel hsev dd m\ni 
now.” “It is very kind of you, sir, to make me this offer. 
nau .” “it iz veri kaindov juso:, to meik mi: dis ofo. 
I shall be very glad to accept it. I never had much accept = agree 
ai fol bi: veri glsed tu ok'sept it. ai nevo hsed m\tf 
money, and after a fortnight’s holiday one hasn’t got 
m\ni 9 ond a.ftor o fo.tnaits holidi w\n hseznt got 
very much money.” 
veri m\tf m\ni .” 
The manager laughed, saying, “I can very well under- 
do msenidp la:jt 9 seiig 9 “ai kon veri wel \ndo- 
stand that you haven’t got very much money after a 
'stwnd dot ju: hsevnt got veri m\tf m\ni a:ftor o 
fortnight’s holiday. I am glad that you will accept my 
jo.tnaits holidi. ai om glsed dot ju: wil ok'sept mai 
offer. And while we are speaking of this matter, you 
ojo. ond hwail wi: a: spi.kiy ov dis meets, ju: 
had better tell me how much money you require.” require = need 
hod beio tel mi: hau m\tf m\ni ju: ri'kwaio .” 
send for = send a 
person to call 
six feet = 1.83 
metres (one foot 
= 12 inches = 
0.305 metre) 
Storm said that he didn’t know the prices in England 
sto:m sed dot hi: didnt nou do praisiz in iyglond 
yet, so that it was a little difficult for him to say how 
jet , sou ddt it wdz 9 litl difikdlt /a him td sei hau 
much he would require. At last, however, they agreed 
m\tf hi: wdd rikwaio. dt la:st 9 hau'evd, dei o'gri:d 
to make the advance ten pounds. 
td meik di od'vams ten paundz. 
The manager now sent for a young Englishman by the 
dd maenidp nau sent fdr a / at? iyglifmon bai dd 
name of Marshall and asked him to introduce Storm 
neim dv ma:fdl dnd a:skt him tu intro dju:s sto:m 
to everybody in the office, and also to tell him about 
tu evribodi in di ofis , dnd odsou td tel him obaul 
his work. Storm was six feet tall, and he noticed that 
hiz Wd:k. sto:m woz siks ji:t /a.7, dnd hi: noutist ddt 
the Englishman was also about six feet tall, so that the 
di iyglifmon woz odsou d'baut siks ji:t to:l 9 sou dot dd 
two young men were of about the same height. Many 
tu: j\y men wd:r ov obaut do seim hait. meni 
Englishmen are tall; their height is greater than that 
iyglifmon a: tod; deo hait iz greito don dcet 
of people in many foreign countries. Marshall said that 
ov pi:pl in meni jorin kxntriz. ma:fdl sed ddt 
he would lead the way, and he went in front, telling 
hi: wdd li:d do wei , ond hi: went in fr\nt , leliy 
Storm to follow him. “All right,” replied Storm, “if 
sto:m to folou him. “od raitri'plaid sto:m , “if 
The Forty-First (41st) Chapter. 
you will lead, I will follow you.” 
ju: wil li:d , ai wil folou ju 
Marshall asked Storm how long he had worked for 
ma:Jdl a:skt sto:m hau log hi: hdd Wd:kt fd 
the firm at home and learnt that he had worked for 
dd fd:m dt houm dnd h:nt ddt hi: hod wo:kt fd 
the firm for five years, so that he had had five years’ 
dd fd:m fd faiv fhz , sou ddt hi: hdd hsed faiv fidz 
experience. “I have only worked for the firm for four 
iks'pidridns. (i ai hdv ounli u)d:kt fd dd fd:m fd fo: 
years,” Marshall said. “I have less experience than 
jidz” ma:fdl sed. “ai hxv les iks'pidridns ddn 
you. How long have you been learning English?” 
ju:. hau log hdv ju: him hmig iyglif?" 
“About nine months,” said Storm, “but although I can 
“d'baut nain m\nps” sed sto:m , “bdt o:ldou ai kon 
say many things, I can’t express myself as well as I 
sei meni pigz , ai kamt iks'pres mai'self dz wel dz ai 
should like to. But now I shall get as much practice and 
fdd laik tu. bdt nau ai fdi get dz m\tf prxktis dnd 
experience in speaking your language as I could wish.” 
iks'pidridns in spi.kig jo: Lrggwidj dz ai kdd wif .” 
“You express yourself quite well in English, and as you 
“ju: iks'pres jo:'self kwait wel in iyglif , dnd dz ju: 
will be speaking nothing but English from now on, 
wil bi: spi:kiy nxpiy bdt igglif frdm nau on , 
you will soon get great practice in expressing yourself. 
ju: wil sum get greit preektis in iks'presiy jo:'self. 
lead the way = go 
in front and show 
the way 
He leads, he led, 
he has led 
[li:dz , led , led). 
11/2 
pronounce a word 
= say a word as 
it should be said 
suppose = think 
so far = until now 
Do you find that English words are difficult to 
du: ju: faind dot iyglif wo:dz a: dijikolt to 
pronounce?” “Sometimes,” Storm answered, “your 
pronouns?" “s\mtaimz ,” sto:m a:nsod f “jo: 
words are difficult for my tongue to pronounce, but I 
wo:dz a: difikolt fo mai t\y to pronouns , bol ai 
suppose that after a time my mouth and my tongue 
so'pouz dot a:ftor o taim mai maup ond mai t\y 
will get used to the English pronunciation.” “Yes, I 
wil get ju:st to di iygliJ pronxnsi'eifon." “jes , ai 
suppose they will. I am quite sure that the pronunci- 
sopouz dei wil . ai om kwail fuo dot do pron\nsi- 
ation of the words in your language would be very 
'eifon ov, do wo:dz in jo: Ueygwidj wod bi: veri 
difficult to me at first. The manager told me this is 
dijikolt to mi: ot fo:st. do mcenidp tould mi: dis iz 
your first visit to England. Do you like what you have 
jo: fo:st uizit tu iyghnd. du: ju: laik hwot ju: hov 
seen of England?’ 
si:n ov iyghnd?'' 
Storm told him that so far he had enjoyed his stay 
sto:m tould him dot sou fa: hi: hod in'dpid hiz stei 
in England very much, and that although he had 
in irjghnd veri m\tf t ond dot o:l'dou hi: hod 
learned about England at school, he was glad to see for 
h.nd obaut iyglond ot sku:l t hi: woz glxd to si: fo 
himself what the country was really like. He said that 
himself hwot do k*\nlri woz rioli laik. hi: sed dot 
The Forty-First (41st) Chapter. 
the things you read about a foreign country are not 
do piyz ju: ri:d o'baut a jorin k\ntri a: not 
always the real facts. If you want to know what another 
o:lwdz do riol jsekts. if ju: wont to nou hwot on Abo 
country is like, it is necessary for you to visit it your- 
k\ntri iz laik 9 it iz nesisori jo ju: to vizit it jo:- 
self. It is a fact that books do not always give you the 
'self, it iz o jsekt dot buks du: not o:lwoz giv ju: do 
right impression. 
rait im'prefon. 
The firm was divided into five different departments, 
do fo:m woz di'vaidid into jaiv dijront di'pa:tmonts 9 
each with its own work to take care of. In order that 
i:tf wid its oun wo:k to teik keor ov. in o:do dot 
in order that = 
so that 
Storm might see everything, Marshall took him round 
slo:m mait si: cvripiy , ma:fol tuk him round 
to each of the five departments of the firm. “It is my 
tu i:tf ov do faiv di'pa:tmonts ov do jo:m. “it iz mai 
experience,” said Marshall, “that the men in the 
iks'piorions” sed ma:fol 9 “dot do men in do 
different departments all think that the work they take 
dijront di'pa:tmonts o:l phjk dot do wo:k dei teik 
care of is the most important. I think you will have 
keor ov iz do moust im'po.tont. ai piyk ju: wil hcev 
the same experience. We'll begin by going to the 
do seim iks'piorions. wi:l bi'gin bai gouiy to do 
factory where the different goods are made." Marshall 
jwktori hweo do dijront gudz a: meid." ma:fol 
led the way to the factory, and one of the men working 
led do wei td dd fxktori , 9nd w\n 9V 69 men wo.kiy 
there explained to Storm that this was the place where 
deo iks'pleind t9 sto:m d9t dis W 9 Z do pleis hweo 
the goods were made. “We produce the goods, that is, 
69 gudz W9: meid. “wi: prd'dju:s 69 gudz t daet iz, 
we make the goods here. The other departments may 
wi: meik 69 gudz hio. di a 69 di'pa:tmonts mei 
be useful, but remember that we produce the things.” 
bi: ju.sful, b 9 t ri'membo d9t wi: pr9'dju:s 69 piyz” 
later on = later 
Later on, they went into the department where the 
leit9r on, dei went int9 69 di'pa:tmont hwe9 69 
books were kept. Here they were told the same thing 
bilks W9: kept, hio dei wo: tould do seim pig 
as in the factory: the department that keeps the books 
oz in do fxktori: do di'pa:tmont dot ki:ps do buks 
and gets the money for the goods that have been 
ond gets do m\ni fo do gudz dot hov bi:n 
produced and sold, must be the most important. The 
pro'dju.st ond sould, most bi: do moust im'po.tont. do 
man to whom they spoke in this department told Storm 
mxn to hu:m dei spouk in dis dipa.tmont tould sto:m 
Scotchman = Scot 
that he was a Scot and not an Englishman. He showed 
dot hi: woz 0 skot ond not on igglifmon. hi: foud 
Marshall a big book, saying to him, “Everybody that 
ma:fol o big buk, seiig to him, “evribodi dot 
buys from us has an account in this book, in order that 
baiz from as hxz on o'kaunl in dis buk , in o:do dot 
The Forty-First (41st) Chapter. 
we may know how much money he owes us, that is, 
wi: mei nou hau m\tj m\ni hi: ouz as, d&t iz, 
how much money he has to pay us. You can see that 
hau mAif m\ni hi: hxz td pei as. ju: kdn si: dot 
there are hundreds of accounts in this book, and I am 
5ed h\ndrddz dv d'kaimts in dis buk, dnd ai dm 
sure you’ll agree that it is very important to collect 
fud ju:l d'gri: ddt it iz veri im'po:tdnt td kd'lekt 
the money that people owe us as quickly as possible. 
d? m\ni ddt pi:pl ou as dz kwikli dz posdbl. 
That is my work. I am a book-keeper, and I take care 
diet iz mai Wd:k. ai dm d bukki:pd, dnd ai teik kedr 
of the book-keeping.” Marshall told Storm that the 
dv 5d bukki.piy” ma:fdl tould sto:m ddt dd 
London branch of the firm had been established in the 
l\nddn bra:nf dv dd fd:m hdd bi:n is'taeblift in dd 
year 1909, and that this Scotchman, or Scot as 
jhnainti:nounain,dnd ddt dis skotfmdn, o: skdt dz 
he called himself, had started working for the firm in 
hi: ko:ld himself, hdd sta:tid Wd:kig fd do fd:m in 
the same year; he had worked for it ever since it was 
dd seim fid; hi: hdd Wd.kt jdr it evd sins it wdz 
established. Storm asked Marshall what a man who 
is'taeblift. sto:m a:skt ma:fdl hwot d mien hu: 
works in an office is called, and learned that he is 
Wd.ks in dn of is iz ko:ld, dnd h:nd ddt hi: iz 
called a clerk. “You and I are clerks, then,” said Storm. 
ko:ld o kla:k. “ju: dnd ai a: kla:ks, den” sed sto:m. 
collect money = 
ask for and get 
the money people 
owe one 
post = 
attend 
care of 
“I have never heard the word ‘clerk* before.** 
“ai hov nevo ho:d bo Wd:d ' kla:k * bi'fo :.** 
After visiting the other departments, they went to their 
a:fto vizitiy di a bo di'pa.tmonts, bei went id dedr 
own, the correspondence department. Marshall now told 
oun 9 id koris'ponddns dipa:tmdnt. ma:fol nau tould 
Storm about his work. “We receive all the foreign post, 
sto:m d'baut hiz wo:k. “ wi: risi:v o:l 5d forin poust , 
or foreign mail as we usually call it,** he said, “and 
o: forin meil dz wi: ju:$uoli ko:l it” hi: sed 9 "dnd 
first of all we open the letters, after which we take 
fd:st ov o:l wi: oupon bo letdz , a:ftd hwitf wi: teik 
them to the different departments in order to get the 
bom to id difront di'pa:imonts in o:do to get di 
answers. When you open the letters, there is a very 
a:nsoz . hwen ju: oupon id letoz , boz o veri 
good chance of getting some foreign stamps if you*re 
gud tfa:ns ov getiy som forin stsemps if juor 
interested in collecting stamps. Later in the day, we 
intristid in kolektiy stomps, leitor in bo dei , wi: 
have to see that all the foreign letters are written and 
hsev to si: dot o:l bo forin letoz a: ritn ond 
to 
take 
the mail sent off. These are the matters that we attend 
bo meil sent o:f. bi:z a: bo mcetoz dot wi: o'tend 
to in this department. You may be sure that it is quite 
tu in bis di'pa:tmont. ju: mei bi: Juo dot it iz kwait 
enough to attend to, for the foreign mail is very big.*’ 
i l n\f tu otend tu f fo bo forin meil iz veri big” 
The Forty-First (41st) Chapter. 
“Thank you very much for all the useful information 
“pxyk ju: veri mhtj j9T o:l 69 ju:sful inf9'meif9i\ 
you have given me,” said Storm. “If I want any more 
ju: h9V givn mi: t ” sed sto:m. “if ai wont eni mo:r 
information about my work or other things here, I 
inf9'meif9n obaut mai W9:k o:r \S9 piyz hh f ai 
hope I mav come to you for it.” 
houp oi mei k\rn t9 ju: \9T it” 
EXERCISE A. 
prices in England to know how much money he receive 
that his work would be to receive and take care of the practice 
book-keeper 
book-keeping 
keep books 
care 
account 
owe 
lead 
led 
department 
follow 
clerk 
factory 
goods 
produce 
attend to 
information 
post 
suppose 
matter 
establish 
fact 
Scotchman 
collect 
mail 
later on 
learn 
EXERCISE B. 
Write about your holidays last summer or some other 
words. Tell us when you had your holidays, whether 
you went away from home during the holidays, how 
you travelled, where you went, what you did, and 
anything else that you remember. Use your own words 
as well as you can. If you cannot always remember the 
right words, try to explain what you mean in some 
other way. 
EXERCISE C. GRAMMAR. 
If you have started the study of “English by the Nature 
Method ,f only in order to be able to speak to and under¬ 
stand an Englishman as well as to read a newspaper 
or a good book in the English language, you need not 
work at this exercise. But if you want to go on with 
the study of English after you have finished reading 
these chapters, for example, in order to become a 
teacher of English, or because you are interested in 
the language itself, it will be necessary for you to go 
through Exercise C. It tells you something about the 
different sorts of words of which the English language 
is made up, arid how to use them, in other words, it 
teaches you English grammar in English. 
The Forty-First (41st) Chapter. 
Language is made up of words. When we speak, we 
put the words together into sentences [sentdnsiz]. Man, 
woman, teacher, always, are words. “He is a good man”, 
is a sentence [senhns]; the words: he, is, a, good, man, 
have been put together to make a sentence. Grammar 
[grxmd] teaches us how to use the different words of a 
language and how to make sentences of them. We are 
now going to have some short exercises in English 
grammar. 
The names of the things or the people that we speak 
about in our sentences are called nouns [naunz]. Man 
is a noun [naiz/i], woman is a noun, Storm is a noun, 
London is a noun. Here are some more nouns: boy, 
cow, ice, book, train, paper, day, month, year, office, 
firm, teacher, experience, fact, department. These are 
all nouns, that is, they are names of people or of things 
that we can tell something about. 
When a noun tells us of one thing or one person only, 
we call it a singular [shjgjuh] noun, or we say that the 
noun is in the singular. Man, woman, boy, book, horse, 
are all singular nouns. Only one man, one woman, etc., 
is mentioned. 
When a noun tells us of two or more things or persons, 
we call it a plural [pliidrA] noun, or we say that the 
word is in the plural. Men, women, boys, books, horses, 
are all in the plural; they are plural nouns, because 
they mention more than one man, more than one 
woman, etc. Most English nouns add -s in the plural, 
for instance: girl, house, room, tree, person, animal. 
11/3 
When we speak of more than one of these, we say: 
girls, houses, rooms, trees, persons, animals. 
Some English nouns, however, have no -s in the plural, 
for instance: man, woman, child. The plurals of these 
three nouns are: men, women, children. We are going 
to hear more about this in the next chapter. 
Questions: 
sort of words which give the names of the things or 
