Chapter Forty-Two (42). 
The Forty-Second (42nd) Chapter. 
A KIND OFFER 
Marshall now showed Storm the desk at which he was 
ma:Jol nau foud sto:m do desk 9t hwitf hi: W9Z 
desk = writing 
table 
to sit when working. At both sides of the desk there 
t9 sit hwen wo:kig. 9t boup saidz 9U 59 desk be9 
were four or five drawers. “We keep a good supply of 
W9 : fo:r 9 faiv dro:9z. “wi: ki:p 9 gud so'plai 9V 
paper, ink, pens, pencils, etc., in the drawers. Then it 
peipo, igk 9 penz , penslz , it'setro, in 69 dro:9Z . ben it 
is unnecessary to go out and buy things of that sort 
iz \n'nesisori t9 gou aut 9nd bai pigz 9V bset so:t 
every day. You see, for instance, the supply of pencils 
evri dei . ju: si: 9 (or inst9ns 9 b9 S9'plai 9V penslz 
in this drawer; that will last for three months and 
in bis dro:9; bset wil la:st f9 pri: m\nps and 
means that we shall not have to buy any more pencils 
mi:nz bot wi: fol not hsev t9 bai eni mo: penslz 
for a long time. In the same way, the paper supply will 
for 9 log taim. in bo seim wei 9 bo peipo so'plai wil 
last for one month. We use a lot of thin paper for 
la:st /a w\n m\np. wi: ju:z a lot ov pin peipo jo 
copies, as we take a copy of every letter that we write. 
kopiz 9 oz wi: teik a kopi ov evri leto bot wi: rait. 
Sometimes we even take several copies of a letter when 
s\mtaimz wi: i:von teik sevrol kopiz ov a leto hwen 
it is a very important one.” 
it iz d veri im'po.tdnt w\n 
“You noticed,” Marshall continued, “that when we 
“ju: noutislma:Jdl koritinju.d , “ddt hwen wi: 
visited the different departments to see how the work 
vizitid dd difrdnt di'pa:tmdnts td si: hau dd Wd:k 
was organised, we went from one floor to another by 
u)9Z o:gdT\aizd , wi: went frdm w\n flo: tu o'nxdd bai 
the stairs. Instead we might have used the lift, which 
Sd steoz. in'sted wi: mait hdv ju:zd dd lift , hwitf 
goes all the way from the ground floor to the top floor 
gouz o:l dd wei frdm dd graund flo: td dd top flo: 
and stops at all floors. There is one lift for persons. 
dnd stops dt o:l flo:z. bdz w\n lift fd po:snz y 
and another lift for. goods. The lift that is used for 
dnd o'nxdd lift fd gudz. dd lift ddt iz ju:zd fd 
goods can easily lift as many pounds as the weight of 
gudz kdn i:zili lift dz meni paundz oz dd weit dv 
twenty big men. The one for persons is smaller; it 
twenti big men. dd w\n fd pd:snz iz smo:lo; it 
takes three persons at a time.” “Fine!” Storm said, 
teiks pri: po:snz dt d taim“fain!” sto:m sed y 
“if I have to go up to the fourth floor, you may be 
“if ai hxv td gou a p td do fo:p flo: y ju: mei bi: 
sure that I shall take the lift. Now that I have seen 
fud dot ai Jdl teik dd lift, nau ddt ai hdu si:n 
all the different departments, I must say that I am 
o:l dd difront di pa.tmonls, ai most sei dot ai dm 
The Forty-Second (42nd) Chapter. 
really surprised at the size of this branch of the firm. 
rioli sd'praizd dt bd saiz ov bis bra:nf ov bd fd:m. 
Everything is bigger than I expected it to be.” “One 
evripiy iz bigd bdn ai iks'pektid it td bi €( w\n 
reason for this,” said Marshall, “is that the manager 
ri:zn jo bis” sed ma:fdl , “iz bdt bd maenidpr 
is a very good business man. All the departments work 
iz 9 veri gud biznis maen. o:l bd di'padmonts wo:k 
well together, even in the smallest things. All the work 
wel td'gebd , i:vdn in bd smo:list piyz. o:l bd wd:k 
of the firm is very well organised. I don’t think I ever 
dv bd jd:m iz veri wel o.gonaizd. ai dount pirjk ai evd 
saw a firm with more system and organisation in its 
so: d fo:m wib mo: sistim ond o:gonai'zeifon in its 
work, but then I haven’t seen a great many yet. But 
wo:k t bdt ben ai haevnt si:n d greit meni jet . bdt 
to speak of something quite different: Where are you 
td spi:k dv SAmpiy kwait difrdnt: hweor a: ju: 
staying?” “I have been staying at a hotel in Blooms- 
steiiyT' “ai hdv bi:n steiiy dt 9 hou'tel in blu:mz - 
bury,” answered Storm, “but I shall have to find some- 
bdri” a:nsod sto:m , “bdt ai fdl haev td jaind s\m - 
thing cheaper.” “The manager told me that he thought 
piy tfi:pd” “bd maenidp touldmi: bdt hi: pod 
you would be wanting a room, and I have an offer to 
ju: wod bi: wontiy 0 ru:m, ond ai haev on ofo to 
make you. We have a bedroom at home which we never 
meik ju:. wi: haev 0 bedrum dt houm hwitf wi: nova 
use. It was my sister’s, but she is married now. Would 
ju:z. it wdz mai sistdz , bdt fi: iz maerid nau. wdd 
you like to come and live with us? I live alone with 
ju: laik is k\m dnd liv wid a s? ai liv o'loun wid 
my parents, as all my brothers and sisters are married, 
mai peoronts, oz o:l mai br\doz dnd sistdz a: maerid , 
and I should be glad to have some company.” “Thank 
dnd ai fdd bi: glaed id haev Sdm kxmponi .” “paeyk 
you very much, it is very kind of you. I shall be glad 
ju: veri m\tf 9 it iz veri kaind dv ju:. ai fdl bi: glaed 
to accept your kind offer, especially as it will mean 
tu ok'sept jo: kaind ojd 9 is'pefoli dz it wil mi:n 
that I shall have pleasant company.” 
Sot ai fol haev pleznt kxmponi .” 
“I think it will be an advantage for you to live with 
“ai pirjk it wil bi: on od'va:ntid$ jo ju: to liv wid 
us,” said Marshall. “There are many things you will 
as ,” sed ma:fol. “deo meni pigz ju: wil 
want to see, and I might be your guide and show you 
wont to si: 9 ond ai mait bi: jo: gaid ond foil ju: 
the most interesting things.” “Thank you, it would be 
do moust intristig pigz .” “paegk ju: 9 it wod bi: 
fine to have you as a guide to show me the town.” “As 
jain to haev ju: oz o gaid to fou mi: do taun .” “oz 
soon as we finish at the office this afternoon, we can 
su:n oz wi: jinif ot di ojis dis a:fto'nu:n 9 wi: kon 
go to your hotel and pay the bill and then go straight 
gou to jo: hou'tel ond pei do bit ond den gou streit 
The Forty-Second (42nd) Chapter. 
down to my home. Have you got many bags?” “No,” 
daun to mai houm. hov ju: got meni bsegz ?” “noii,” 
said Storm, “I have only one bag, and there are so 
sed sio:m , “ai hxv ounli w\n bxg , ond deo sou 
few things in it that it is not heavy to carry. I am glad 
(ju: piyz in it dot it iz not hevi to kxri. ai om glxd 
of this, for the weather is very hot, and it would not be 
ov Sis , jo do wcdor iz veri hot , ond it wod not bi: 
very pleasant to carry a heavy weight in such a heat.” 
veri pleznt to kxri o hevi weit in s\tf o hi:t .” 
Having got Storm’s bag, the two young men went to 
hxviy got sto:mz bxg, do tu: j\y men went to 
the Underground. In the streets' the heat was still very 
di \ndograund. in do stri:ts do hi:t woz stil veri 
great, but in the Underground train the air was quite 
greit , bot in di \ndograund trein di eo woz kwait 
cool. After having got so hot, they were glad to feel 
ku:l. a:jto hxviy got sou hot , dei wo: glxd to fi:l 
cool again. Storm found the house of Marshall’s parents 
ku:l o'gein. sto:m faund do haus ov ma:Jolz peoronts 
to be a typical English house with five rooms. He was 
to bi: o tipikol iyglif haus wid faiv ru:mz. hi: woz 
introduced to Mr. and Mrs. Marshall, after which Mrs. 
intro dju:st to mistor ond misiz ma. fol, a:jto hwitf misiz 
Marshall took him upstairs to his bedroom. He saw 
ma:fol tuk him 'a p'steoz to hiz bedrum. hi: so: 
that there was a nice comfortable bed, a large table, 
dot deo woz o nais kAmfotobl bed , o la:d$ teibl f 
chest of drawers 
linen (here) = 
shirts, handker¬ 
chiefs, underwear, 
etc. (which are 
made of linen) 
He hangs, 
he hung, 
he has hung 
[hcerjz, h\r /, h\rj]. 
pAotogra/iA 
an armchair, a sofa, a chest of drawers, a wardrobe, 
on ' a:nitfed , a scujo, a tfest ov dro:dz , a wo:droub , 
and some other pieces of furniture. He was very happy 
dnd Sdm \do pi:siz ov fd:nitfd. hi: Wdz veri heepi 
to see so much furniture, much more than there had 
/a si: sou m\tf fo:nitfo , ni\tf mo: don deo hod 
been in the hotel room. 
bi:n in do houtel ru:m. 
Storm opened his bag and took out some shirts, hand- 
slo:m oupond hiz beeg ond tuk ant som Jo:ts , hxy- 
kerchiefs, etc., and went to the chest of drawers and 
kotfifSy itsetro , ond went to do tfest ov dro:oz ond 
opened one of the drawers. As he had come to England 
oupond WAn ov do dro:oz . oz hi: hod k\m tu iijqlond 
for a fortnight only, he had brought very little linen 
for a fo:tnait ounli, hi: hod bro:t veri litl linin 
and would have to buy some more in London. There 
ond wod h<TV to bai som mo:r in t\ndon. deo 
were some pictures on the walls, but Mrs. Marshall 
wo: som piktfoz on do wo:lz , bot misiz ma:fol 
said that perhaps he would like to hang up some 
sed dot pohveps hi: wod laik to hver) a p som 
pictures of his own or some photographs of relations 
piktfoz ov hiz oun o: som foutografs ov ri'leifonz 
or friends. Storm replied that he had no pictures to 
o: frendz. sto:m ri'plaid dot hi: hoed nou piktfoz to 
hang up, but he had a photograph of his father. He 
hxr) a p, bot hi: hoed a foutogra:/ ov hiz fa:do. hi: 
The Forty-Second (42nd) Chapter. 
told Mrs. Marshall that he had no father now; his 
tould misiz ma:fal dal hi: heed non ja:5a nau; hiz 
father was dead. “I am very sorry,” said Mrs. Marshall, 
fa:da waz ded. ,( ai am veri sari” sed misiz ma:fal, 
“to hear that your father is not alive. How long has 
“ta hia dot jo: fa:dar iz not alaiu . hau lor) hoz 
he been dead?” “Let me see,” answered Storm, “he 
hi: bi:n ded?” ‘let mi: si:” a:nsod sto:m, “hi: 
was alive until shortly after I became a clerk, so he 
waz alaiv An'til fo:tli a:jlar ai bi'keim a kla:k, sou hi: 
has been dead for five years.” 
haz bi:n ded fa faiv jiaz” 
Mrs. Marshall now showed Storm some hooks in a 
misiz ma:fal nau foud sto:m som huks in a 
comer of the room, upon which he could hang some 
ko:nar av da ru:m, a'pan hwitf hi: kad haey s\m 
of his clothes. He took one or two things out of his bag 
av hiz kloudz. hi: tuk wau a tu: piyz aut av hiz bseg 
and hung them on hooks, and the rest he hung in the 
and hxrj dam on huks, and da rest hi: hAy in da 
wardrobe. She also pointed to the door, which had a 
wo.droub. fi: o:lsou pointid ta da do:, hwitf haed a 
key in the lock, and told Storm that she would give 
ki: in da lok , and tould sto:m dat fi: wad giv 
him a key to the front door, too. He thanked Mrs. 
him a ki: ta da frxnt do:, tu:. hi: paegkt misiz 
Marshall for thinking of all these things, but said, 
ma:fal fa piykig av o:l di:z piy?> bat scd y 
other things 
lock 
come of = 
fall off 
He sews, 
he sewed, 
he has sewn 
\souz , soudy soun|. 
extremely = very 
however, that he didn’t think it necessary to lock his 
hau'evdy dot hi: didnt pigk it nesisori td lok hiz 
bedroom door. 
bedrum do:. 
Mrs. Marshall told Storm that if a button should come 
misiz ma:Jdl tould sto:m dot if 9 b\tn fdd k\m 
off his coat, she would be glad to sew it on again. 
o:f hiz kouty fi: wdd bi: glaed td sou it on d'gein. 
“Such things,” she said, “are not difficult for a woman 
“sAtf piyZy” fi: sed f “a: not difikdlt for o wumon 
to do; they’re quite simple, because we do them so 
td du:; deo kwait simply bi'koz wi: du: 6om sou 
often, but they’re not always simple for men.” “That 
o:fn 9 bot deo not o:lwoz simpl fo men. 19 “daet 
is extremely kind of you, Mrs. Marshall. Once, when I 
iz iks'tri.mli kaind ov ju: f misiz ma.fol. WAns t hwenai 
was in the country on holiday, I sewed on some buttons 
woz in do kAntri on holidiy ai soud on som bAtnz 
which had come off, but the next day they came off 
hwitf hod kAm 0 :/, bot do nekst dei dei keim o:f 
again; they were so badly sewn on. Although I really 
o'gein; dei wo: sou baedli soun on. od'dou ai rioli 
have only one thumb on each hand, as soon as I start 
hoev ounli WAn pAm on i:tf haend, oz sum oz ai sta:t 
sewing, I feel as if all five fingers were thumbs.” “I 
souir)y ai fid oz if od faiv figgoz wo: pAmz." “ai 
think there is only one more thing to ask you about,” 
pigk doz ounli WAn mo: pig tu a:sk ju: o'baut 11 
The Forty-Second (42nd) Chapter. 
said Mrs. Marshall, “after which I will leave you with 
std misiz ma:fdl 9 “a:ftd hwitf ai wil li:v ju: wid 
my son. At what time would you like to get up in the 
mai s\n, dt hwot taim wdd ju: laik id get a p in dd 
morning, early or late?” “At home,” Storm answered, 
mo:niy 9 d:li a leit?” “dt houm” sto:m a:nsdd 9 
“I usually get up about seven o’clock in the morning.” 
“ai ju:judli get a p dbaut sevn d'klok in dd mo:niy” 
“That suits us very well. My son usually gets up a 
“devt sju:ts as veri wet. mai SAn ju:$udli gets a p d 
little later, so you can have the bathroom first. There 
litl leitd 9 sou ju: kdn hvev dd ba:prum fd:st. ded 
will be a special hook there for you to hang your 
wil bi: d spejdl huk ded jd ju: td fiver) jo: 
things on.” 
pigz on.” 
Mrs. Marshall now left the room, and the two young 
misiz ma:fdl nau left dd ru:m 9 dnd do tu: jAy 
men sat down to have a talk. Storm sat down in the 
men svet daun to heev a io:k. sto:m svet daun in di 
armchair, while Marshall lay down on the sofa and 
'a:m'tfed 9 hwail ma:Jdl lei daun on do soufo ond 
made himself comfortable. This was not difficult, for 
meid himself kAmfotobl. dis woz not dijikolt , /a 
there were two or three very good cushions on if. “I 
deo wd: tu: a pri: veri gud kufdnz on it. “ai 
am afraid I shall fall asleep,” said Marshall. “Yester- 
dm d'freid ai fol fo:l d [ sli:p 9 ” sed ma:fol. “jestd- 
He lies, he lay, 
he has lain 
[ laiz, lei , lein]. 
cushion 
day, I lay down after dinner, and before long I was 
di 9 ai lei daun a:fto dins, dnd bi'fo: lor) ai woz 
asleep. When you lie down on the sofa after a day’s 
o'sli:p . hwen ju: lai daun on do soufo a:jtor o deiz 
feel like 
want 
work and a nice dinner, you feel like a good sleep. But 
wo:k ond o nais dino t ju: fid laik o gud sli:p . bot 
perhaps you would like me to help you to hang up the 
po'hxps ju: wod laik mi: to help ju: to hxg a p do 
photograph? When we moved into this house, I put in 
foutogra:f? hwen wi: mu:vd into dis haus , ai put in 
the nails for all the pictures. I will go downstairs to 
do neilz for o:l do piktfoz. ai wil gou daun'steoz to 
get a nail for your photograph. It will be a good thing 
get o neil fo jo: foutogra.f. it wil bi: o gud pig 
to get it hung up at once; then the room will begin to 
to get it hxg a p ot wxns; den do ru:m wil bi'gin to 
look a little like home to you.” Storm wanted to hang 
luk o litl laik houm to ju:” sto:m wontid to hxg 
the photograph over the chest of drawers, and as it was 
do foutogra.f ouuo do tfest ov dro:oz t ond oz it woz 
too high for them to reach, Marshall stood on a chair. 
tu: hai fo dom to ri:tf , ma:fol stud on o tfeo. 
He was then able to reach the place where it was to 
hi: woz den eibl to ri:tf do pleis hweor it woz to 
hang, and before long the nail was in the wall and 
hxg 9 ond bi'fo: log do neil woz in do wod ond 
Storm’s photograph put up. 
sto:mz foutogra:f put a p. 
The Forty-Second (42nd) Chapter. 
EXERCISE A. 
would be a great advantage for him to live at Marshall’s lift (verb) 
way home Storm noticed that although the sun was guide 
down on it. Storm moved his things from his bag to the cushion 
have no use for it. Before she went down, Mrs. Marshall hook 
like that.” dead 
reach 
key 
lock 
lock (verb) 
sew 
sewed 
sewn 
button 
simple 
thumb 
desk 
organise 
wardrobe 
rest 
extremely 
badly 
EXERCISE B. 
Answer these questions with full sentences, but not 
necessarily with the real facts: 
EXERCISE C. GRAMMAR. 
Every word is made up of sounds [ saundz ]. It is the sounds 
that we hear when a word is pronounced. A word is 
written with letters. The word ‘height’ has six letters, 
but it is pronounced with only four sounds: hait. We 
see, therefore, that the letters and the sounds of a word 
are not always the same. The sounds of a word are put 
together into syllables [sihblz]. The word ‘height’ has 
only one syllable [sibbl], but the word ‘follow’ has two, 
and the word ‘establish’ has three syllables. 
We heard last time that most English nouns add an -s 
in the plural, which is used when we speak of more 
ends [endz] in an s-sound, which means that the last 
sound is either s, z, f, or j, the plural ends in -es 
The Forty-Second (42nd) Chapter. 
words are written with an -e after the s-sound in the 
singular. Then only -s is added, but the -s together 
with the -e is pronounced as an extra syllable: iz. For 
Some words that end in -o in the singular, add -es in 
pd'teitouz ]. 
Most words that end in -y in the singular, change -y 
into -i in the plural and add -es. For instance, enemy 
But if one of the letters a, e, o, u goes before -y in the 
singular, the -y remains in the plural. For instance, 
Questions: 
nouns ending in -y do not change this -y into an -i in 
