Chapter Forty-Three (43). 
The Forty-Third (43rd) Chapter. 
THE FOUR PEOPLES OF 
THE BRITISH ISLES 
“I noticed that one of the men to whom I was intro- 
“ai noutist dot w\n ov do men to hu:m ai woz intro¬ 
duced to-day explained that he was a Scotchman, not 
dju:st todei iks'pleind dot hi: woz o skotfmon, not 
an Englishman. Wasn’t that rather a strange thing to 
on igglifmon. woznt dxt ra:5or o streindj pig to 
say?” asked Storm. “You may think so, but that is 
sei?” a:skt sto:m. “ju: mei pigk sou , hot diet iz 
only because you’re a stranger. People in foreign 
ounli bi'koz juor o streindp. pi:p/ in jorin 
countries speak about this country as England and the 
k\ntriz spi:k obaut dis k\ntri oz igglond ond do 
isle = island 
people as English, and know nothing about the existence 
pi:pl oz iyglif, 9nd nou n\pig o'bant di ig'zistons 
of other nations in the British Isles, but there are 
ov \do neifonz in do britif ailz , bot deo 
really four different countries, England, Wales, Scot- 
rioti jo: difront k\nlriz , igglond , weilz , skot- 
land, and Ireland, with four different nations, the 
lond , ond aiolond , wid jo: dijront neifonz , di 
English, the Welsh, the Scotch, and the Irish. In Wales, 
iyglif, do welf, do skotf, ond di aiorif. in weilz. 
404 
The Forty-Third (43rd) Chapter. 
Scotland, and Ireland you will find the Celts, the people 
skatland, and aialand ju: wil faind da kelts, da pi:pl 
to whom all four countries used to belong before the 
ta hu:m o:l fa: kxntriz ju:st ta bi'lay bi'fa: da 
Romans and, later on, the Saxons came to England.” 
roumanz and, leitar on, da saeksnz keim tu iygland” 
Storm: “I remember our teacher telling us that the 
sto:m: “ai ri'membar ana ti:tfa teliy as dat da 
country belonged to the Celts until their enemies took 
k\ntri bi'layd ta da kelts a n'til dear enimiz tuk 
it away from them; but I must say that I never knew 
it a'wei from dam; bat ai mast sei dat ai neva nju: 
that the Celts exist as a nation, or rather, as three 
dat da kelts ig'zist az a neifan, a: ra:da, az pri: 
exist = be 
nations.” “You had better never say that to a Celt,” said 
neifanz .” “ju: had beta neva sei daet tu a keltsed 
Marshall, laughing, “for he would not like to hear that 
ma:Jal, la:fiy, “fa hi: wad not laik to hia dat 
anybody, even a stranger, did not know of the existence 
enibadi, i:van a slreindp, did not nou av di ig zistans 
of the Celts. All Celts are rather proud that they are 
av da kelts . a:l kelts a: ra:da praud dat dei a: 
Celts. The Scotchman to whom you spoke to-day was 
kelts. da skatfman ta hu:m ju: spouk ta'dei waz 
proud that he was a Scotchman; that was the reason 
praud dat hi: waz a skatfman; daet waz da ri:zn 
why he mentioned that he was a Scotchman, and not 
hwai hi: menfand dat hi: waz a skatfman, and not 
405 
Chapter Forty-Three (43). 
but little = very 
little 
anything else = 
any other thing 
an Englishman.” “I am afraid,” said Storm, “that I 
dix iyglifmdn.” “ai om d'freid” sed sto:m f “ddt ai 
know but little about Scotland. I have read many 
nou bdt litl o'baut skotlond. ai hdv red meni 
funny stories about Scotchmen, but the stories that I 
f\ni sto:riz o'baut skotf mon , bdt do sto:riz dot ai 
know about them do not tell me anything about 
nou o'baut 6dm du: not tel mi: enipiy o'baut 
Scotland.” 
skothnd .” 
“The stories will not tell you anything about the 
“3d sto:riz wit not tel ju: enipiy o'baut do 
Scotch either,” Marshall replied, “for most of those 
skotf aido” ma:fol ri'plaid, “fo moust ov douz 
stories give the idea that the Scotch love money more 
sto.riz giu di ai'dio dot do skotf Iav m\ni mo: 
than anything else in the world. You’re told that they 
don enipir) els in do wo:ld. juo tould dot dei 
will do anything to get money, and that they don’t like 
wil du: enipiij to get m\ni, ond Sot dei dount laik 
spending it. This, however, is not so. The Scotchman 
spendiy it. dis t hau'evo, iz not sou. do skotfmon 
takes good care of his money; he is very careful with 
teiks gud keor ov hiz m\ni; hi: iz veri keoful wid 
money; but that is all. I think there must be many 
m\ni; bdt daet iz o:l. ai piyk ded mdst bi: meni 
other people who are careful with their money, and 
Add pi-pi hu: a: ked/ul wid ded /hath', dnd 
406 
The Forty-Third (43rd) Chapter. 
who look twice at a penny before spending it. I myself 
hu: luk twais ot o peni bi'fo: spendiy it. ai mai'self 
do not waste money, spending it unnecessarily, and I 
du: not weist m\ni, spendiy it a n'nesisoriii, ond ai 
am sure that you don’t waste your money either.” 
om Juo 5dt ju: dount weist jo: m\ni aibo” 
Storm: “No, I am rather careful with my money. — 
sto:m: “nou , ai dm ra:bd kedjul wib mai m\ni. — 
I should like to hear a little about these three nations. 
ai fdd laik id hidr o litl d'baut bi:z pri: neifdnz. 
Will you tell me about them?” “I shall be only too 
wit ju: tel mi: d'baut bdm?” “ai Jot bi: ounli tu: 
pleased to do so,” Marshall replied. “To begin with 
pli:zd td du: sou” ma:fdl ri'plaid. “td bi'gin wib 
Wales, it has had English kings for about 700 
weilz, it hdz hxd iyglif kiyz for d'baut sevn hAndrod 
years. When the country was conquered by Edward 
jidz. hwen bd k\ntri WdZ koykdd bai edwdd 
the First, who was then king of England, the Welsh 
bd fo:st, hu: WdZ ben kiy dv iyglond , bo welf 
told him that they would never accept a king who had 
tould him bdt bei wdd nevdr ok'sept o kiy hu: hod 
not been born in their own country and did not speak 
not bi:n bo:n in beor oun kxntri ond did not spi:k 
their language. So Edward called the most important 
bed lxygwid$. sou edwod ko:ld bd moust im'po:iont 
men of Wales to the Castle of Carnarvon and told them 
mqn dv weilz td bd ka:sl dv kd'na:von dnd tould bom 
She bears, 
she bore, 
she has born 
[be?z t bo: t bo:n]. 
be born = come 
into the world 
407 
Chapter Forty-Three (43). 
prince = son of 
the king 
old,, older, oldest 
but: old, elder, 
eldest (about 
sisters and 
brothers) 
harmony = peace 
that he would with pleasure give them a king who had 
dot hi: wod wid plep giv dom a kiy hu: hdd 
been bom in Wales and could not speak one Word of 
bi:n bom in wcilz ond kud not spi:k w\n wo:d ov 
English. They were very pleased with this and promised 
igglif- foi Wd: ver i pli:zd wid dis ond promist 
to accept such a king. Their surprise, however, was 
tu ok'sept s\tf 9 kiy. deo so'praiz , hau'evo , W9Z 
great when Edward’s first-born son, who had been born 
greit hwen edw9dz fd:stbo:n s\n, hu: hdd bi:n bom 
at the castle a few days before, and who was to be 
ot do ka:sl o fju: deiz bi'fo:, ond hu: woz to bi: 
king after Edward, was brought in to them. But they 
kit) a:ftor edwod, woz bro:t in to dom. bot dei 
had to agree with the King that he had kept his 
hied tu o'gri: wid do kiy dot hi: hod kept hiz 
promise, as the little prince really had been born in 
promis, oz do litl prins rioli hoed bi:n bom in 
Wales and could not speak one word of English, and 
weilz ond kud not spi:k w\n wo:d ov iyglif , ond 
so they accepted him. Since that time the eldest son 
sou dei ok'septid him. sins dset taim di eldist s\n 
of the English king has always been called the Prince 
ov di iyglif kiy hoz o:lwoz bim ko:ld do prins 
of Wales, and the Welsh and the English have lived 
ov weilz , ond do welf ond di iyglif hov livd 
together in harmony. 
to'gedor in ha.moni. 
4 08 
The Forty-Third (43rd) Chapter. 
“It has been much more difficult for the English and 
“it hoz bi:n mxtf mo: dilikolt fa di iyglif and 
the Scotch to live in peace and harmony with each 
do shot/ to liv in pi:s ond ha:moni wid i:tf 
other, and the two countries have had the same kings 
Ado , ond do tu: k\ntriz hov hied do seim kiyz 
for no more than 300 years. For many hundred 
jo noil mo: don pri: h\ndrod jioz. fo meni h\ndrod 
years the two nations were enemies, and the Scotch 
jioz do tu: neifonz wo:r enimiz, ond do skotj 
had just as great a hatred of the English as the English 
hod dpstoz greit o heitrid ov di iyglif zz di iyglif 
of the Scotch. But the two countries have now become 
ov do skotj. bot do tu: k\ntriz hov nau bi'kxm 
the best of friends, and the existence of the old hatred 
do best ov jrendz , ond di ig'zistons ov di ould heitrid 
has been forgotten. As Queen Elizabeth of England had 
hoz bi:n fogotn. oz kwi:n i'lizobop ov iyglond hied 
no children, the people in both countries agreed that 
nou t/ildron , do pi:pl in boup kxntriz o'gri.d dot 
it would be best for England and Scotland to be joined 
it wod bi: best for iyglond ond skotlond to bi: dpind 
together under one king. James the Sixth of Scotland 
to'gedor xndo wxn kiy. dpimz do siksp ov skotlond 
became James the First of England. Since that time 
bi'keim dpimz do fo:st ov iyglond. sins diet taim 
the two countries have been joined together and have 
do tu: kxntriz hov bi:n dpind to'gedo ond hov 
409 
Chapter Forty-Three (43). 
would (here) = 
used to 
hurry = go 
quickly 
He hides, he hid, 
he has hidden 
[haidz, hid , hidn]. 
had the same kings. 
hoed do seim kiyz. 
“Until then the English and the Scotch had often 
“ ah' til den di iyglif to skotf hdd o:fn 
fought each other. In the early wars the Scotch would 
fo:t i:if a dd. in di 9:li wo:z dd skotj wdd 
send soldiers to the nearest English towns, where they 
send souldpz id dd nidrist iyglif taunz 9 hwed dei 
would do as much damage as possible. Sometimes the 
Wdd du: dz m\tf deemidj dz posdbL s\mtaimz dd 
damage was very great. Houses were set on fire and 
dtvmid$ wdz veri greit . hauziz wd: set on faid dnd 
quite destroyed, so that not one stone was left upon 
kwait di'stroid , sou dot not w\n sioun woz left d'pon 
another. The Scotch only came to destroy houses and 
d'n\do . do skotj ounli keim id di'stroi hauziz dnd 
fields and to take the cows and sheep of the English. 
fi:ldz dnd id teik dd kauz dnd fi:p dv di iyglif- 
Having done that, they hurried back as quickly as 
hteviy d\n diet , dei hxrid beek dz kwikli dz 
possible to Scotland to hide in the mountains, where 
posdbl id skotlond id haid in do mauntinz , hwedr 
it would be difficult to find them. They knew that the 
it wdd bi: difikolt id jaind dom. dei nju: dot di 
English would hurry after them, but very often they 
iyglif wdd h\ri a:/Id ddm , bdt veri o:fn dei 
were so well hidden that the English had to give up 
Wd: sou wet hidn ddt di iyglif heed id giv a p 
410 
The Forty-Third (43rd) Chapter. 
trying to find them. 
traiig to faind 5dm. 
“I have told you about the Scotch coming into England, 
"ai hdv tould ju: o'baut dd skotf k\miy intu iyglond, 
but the English were no better. They went just as often 
bdt di iyglif wd: nou betd. dei went d$\st oz o:fn 
into Scotland and did the same damage to the Scotch. 
intd skothnd dnd did dd seim dtemidj td dd skotf. 
Sometimes the English even sent large armies into 
sxmtaimz di iyglif i:vdn sent la:d$ a:miz intd 
Scotland. Once, the English went into Scotland with 
skothnd. w\ns , di iyglif went into skotlond wid 
an army of 150 000 men. The Scotch got 
on a:mi ov w\n h\ndrod ond fifti pauzond men. do skotf got 
together an army of good soldiers, but they were few 
to'gedor on a:mi ov gud souldpz , bdt dei wo: fju: 
in comparison with the English. The two armies met 
in kom'paerisn wid di iyglif• do tu: a:miz met 
at Bannockburn, where a great battle was fought. The 
ot bxnok'bom, hweor o greit baetl woz fo:t. do 
Scotch soldiers were very brave; they were not afraid 
skotf souldpz wo: veri breiv; dd wo: not o'jreid 
of meeting and fighting against a much larger army. 
ov mi:lig ond faitig o'geinst o m\tf la:dpr a:mi. 
At the end of the day, the English either lay dead on 
ot di end ov do dei f di iyglif aido lei ded on 
the field of battle or were hurrying back to England 
do fi:ld ov boetl o: wo: h\riig b&k tu iyglond 
He meets, he met, 
he has met 
\mi:ts 9 met , met). 
411 
Chapter Forty-Three (43). 
as quickly as their legs would carry them. 
az kwikli dz dea legz wad kxri dam. 
“At one time, many European nations had Scotchmen 
“at w\n taim , meni juara'pian neijanz hxd skatfman 
in their armies, because they were such brave soldiers, 
in dear a:miz , bi'koz dei wa: s\tf breiv souldpz, 
but now that England and Scotland have the same king, 
bat nau dat iygland and skotland hxv da seim kiy, 
the Scotch soldiers fight side by side with the English 
da skotf souldpz fait said bai said wid di iyglif 
in the British army. And now I had better tell you 
in da britij a:mi. and nau ai had beta tel ju: 
something about the Irish. 
s\mpiy a'bant di aiarif . 
“Ireland is different from Wales and Scotland in many 
,( aialand iz difrant fram weilz and skotland in meni 
things, as a comparison between the Irish and the other 
piyz , az a kam'pxrisn bi'twim di aiarif and di \da 
two nations will soon show. While it has been rather 
tu: neijanz wil sum Jon. hwail it haz bi:n ra:dar 
easy for England, Wales, and Scotland to work together, 
i:zi far iygland , weilz , and skotland la wa:k tageda , 
there have been great difficulties in arriving at peace 
dea hav bi:n greit difikaltiz in a'rawiy at pi:s 
and harmony between the Irish and the English. One 
and ha:mani bi'twim di aiarif and di iyglif • w\n 
reason is that the Irish live in an island of their own, 
ri:zn iz dot di aiarif liu in an ailand av dear oun , 
412 
The Forty-Third (43rd) Chapter. 
while the English, the Scotch, and the Welsh live 
hwail di iyglif, do skotf , ond do welf liv 
together in another island. Then we must also remem- 
to'gedor in onAdor ailond. den wi: most o:lsou ri'mem- 
ber that most of the Irish are Catholics, while most 
bo ddt moust ov di aiorif a: kxpoliks, hwail moust 
of the people of the other countries are Protestants. 
9V d9 pi:pl 9V di Add k\ntriz a: protistdnls . 
I don’t think that we English understand the Irish very 
aidount piyk d9t wi: iyglif a ndo'staend di ahrif veri 
well, and we have not always been particularly kind 
wel , 9nd wi: hov not o:lw9Z bi:n po'tikjuloli kaind 
to them. All this has meant that some of the Irish, 
h dom. o:l dis h9z ment d9t s\m 9V di ahrif , 
particularly those in the southern part which is called 
po'tikjuloli douz in d9 SAdon pa:t hwitf iz ko:ld 
Eire, have not been very satisfied with the English. 
eoro t h9V not bi:n veri s&tisfaid wid di iyglif- 
You will understand, however, that it is almost im- 
ju: wil a ndjstvend, hauevo , dot it iz o.lmousl ; m- 
possible to satisfy people unless you understand them. 
'pos9bl to s&tis/ai pi:pl An tes ju: a ndo'staend dom. 
Scotland and Wales send representatives to the British 
skotlond ond weilz send reprVzenhtivz to do britif 
Parliament in London, but since 1922 Eire 
pa.hmont in lAndon , bAt sins naintim twenii'tu: eoro 
has had a parliament of her own, and she no longer 
hoz hwd o pa.hmont ov ho:r oun f ond fi: nou hygo 
particularly = 
especially 
unless — except if 
413 
Chapter Forty-Three (43). 
sends representatives to London. Northern Ireland has 
sendz repri'zentdtivz to l\nddn . no:6on aiolond hsez 
a parliament of its own, but, at the same time, sends 
o pa.lomont ov its oun , b\t, ot do seim faim , sendz 
representatives to London. When we speak about all 
repri'zentdtivz td l\ndon. hwen wi: spi:k d'baut o:l 
four countries together, we usually call them either 
fo: k\ntriz td'gedd , wi: ju:$udli ko:l 6dm aidd 
the British Isles or Great Britain and Eire (Ireland). 
6d britif ailz o: greit britdn dnd eoro (aiolond). 
There you have a few facts about the Welsh, the 
bed ju: heev d fju: faekls d'baut 6d welf , 6d 
Scotch, and the Irish. Are you satisfied with that? If 
skotf , dnd 5i aidrif. a: ju: ssetisfaid wid beet? if 
not, I promise to tell you more some other time.” 
not , ai promis td tel ju: mo: s\m a 6o taim” 
WORDS: 
British Isles 
belong 
existence 
exist 
proud 
story 
careful 
waste 
not... either 
414 
EXERCISE A. 
Although Storm knew that the British — had — to 
the Celts once, he had never thought of the — of three 
nations of Celts in the British Isles. The Scotch are 
very — that they are Celts, but many of the funny — 
that are told about them are made by the Scotch 
themselves. The stories tell us that the Scotch love 
money, but they are only — with it and do not — it by 
buying things —. But it is not the Scotch alone who 
are like that; there are many other people who do not 
waste their money unnecessarily —. In our days the 
The Forty-Third (43rd) Chapter. 
English, the Welsh, and the Scotch live in peace and 
— together, but several hundred years ago there was 
great — between the nations. The Welsh were the first 
to make peace with the English; the two nations were 
— together, and the English king called his — son the 
— of Wales. The eldest son of King Edward the First 
was — at the Castle of Carnarvon. The Scotch and the 
English continued to send armies into each other’s 
countries to — the towns and do as much — as possible. 
Sometimes, after such a trip into England, the Scotch 
would 3run back and — in the mountains, but often they 
— the English armies and fought great battles with 
them. The Scotch soldiers were very —, and after the 
Battle of Bannockburn the English army, which was 
much bigger than the Scotch army, had to — back to 
England as fast as possible. No difficulties — between 
these three nations now. The — live in another island 
by themselves. It has been more difficult for England 
to — the Irish. If we make a — between the Irish and 
the Celts of Great Britain, we find that the Irish 
are —, while most of the- others are —. The Scotch live 
in —, and the Welsh live in —. Scotland and Wales 
send — to the British Parliament, but Eire was not 
— until she had her own parliament. You cannot expect 
people to be satisfied — they are met with kindness 
and understanding. 
EXERCISE B. 
As soon as Mr. Miller and the two young men came 
home, Wood wrote a letter to Storm telling him about 
the trip. Now we want you to write a letter as if you 
harmony 
hatred 
join 
elder 
eldest 
prince 
destroy 
bear 
bore 
born 
damage 
hide 
hid 
hidden 
meet 
met 
brave 
hurry 
Irish 
satisfy 
satisfied 
comparison 
Catholic 
Protestant 
representative 
Eire 
unless 
particularly 
southern 
Ireland 
rather 
unnecessarily 
415 
Chapter Forty-Three (43). 
were Wood. Please write the letter in such a way that 
you use all the words in the following list: steamer — 
sea — seasick — nice — train — restaurant — carriage 
— wine — cup — newspaper — look — window — 
station — family — carry — good-bye — teacher — 
taxi — remember. 
How to write a letter in English. 
At the top of the paper, in the right hand corner, write 
the address, the day of the month, and the year. For 
example: 
68, Victory Road, Ealing. 
August 4th, 19- 
You may write either 'August 4th’ or '4th August’, but 
you usually pronounce 'the fourth of August’. On the 
left hand side of the paper a little farther down, the 
words ‘Dear Storm’, followed by a comma [,1, begin the 
letter itself. This is the usual way of beginning a letter 
in English. If you write to a person whom you do not 
know very well, you first write the person’s name and 
address and under that the words: Dear Sir, or Dear 
Madam, for example: 
Mr. George Bentham, 
47, Nelson Road, Wimbledon. 
Dear Sir, 
Notice that the number of the house comes before the 
name of the street. If you wish to send greetings to 
somebody else, too, for instance to a person called 
John, you can do so with the words: “Please remember 
me to John.” At the end of the letter, it is most com- 
416 
The Forty-Third (43rd) Chapter. 
mon to write ‘Yours sincerely’ [sirishli], followed 
by your name. If you write to a person whom you do 
not know well, you may write ‘Yours faithfully’ l/cip- 
fuli] or ‘Yours truly’ [tru.li], and then your name. 
Now you know enough about writing letters in English 
to write the letter from Wood to Storm. 
EXERCISE C. GRAMMAR. 
If we want to express that something belongs to some¬ 
body, we may add an -s to the name of the person to 
whom it belongs. For example: the boy’s pencil. When 
this -s is added to a noun, we say that the noun is in 
the genitive \djenitiv]. We notice that there is an 
apostrophe [d'postrdji], which looks like this [’]; it is 
put either before or after the -s, to make it different 
from the plural -s. 
In the singular the apostrophe is always put before 
the -s. For example: the boy’s pencil, the baby’s doll, 
the child’s ball. In the plural there are two ways of 
making the genitive. Nouns that already have a plural 
-s do not add an extra -s in the genitive, but only add 
the apostrophe. Examples: the boys’ pencils, the babies’ 
dolls. So we see there is a difference between the 
singular and the plural in writing: the boy’s pencils, the 
boys’ pencils; but to the ear there is no difference. 
Nouns, however, that do not end in -s in the plural, 
have the apostrophe and the -s just like the genitive in 
the singular. Examples: the men’s hats, the children’s 
balls. The genitive -s is pronounced in the same way 
as the plural -s: the dog’s [ dogz ] nose, the horse’s 
[ho:siz] head. 
417 
Chapter Forty-Three (43). 
The s-genitive is used to express that something belongs 
to a person or an animal . But we may express the idea 
of the genitive in another way, too: John’s father, or: 
the father of John. If it is not a person or an animal that 
something belongs to, we use the word ‘of’ to express 
the genitive: the roof of the house was high; the leaves 
of the trees had fallen. 
Perhaps you have noticed that we speak, for example, 
of two weeks’ holiday or of a day’s work. When we 
speak of a measure of time, the s-genitive is used. 
There is also another way in which the s-genitive is 
used. People speak of shopping at Selfridge’s. It looks 
as if a word should have followed Selfridge’s, and 
really the word ‘shop’ should have followed; but people 
are so used to hearing the name that everybody knows 
what is meant. In the same way we speak of having 
dinner at your uncle’s, that is, at your uncle’s house, or 
of dining at your brother’s, etc. 
Questions: 
What may we add to the name of a person to show that 
something belongs to that person? .. . What takes place 
in the genitive if a noun' already has a plural -s? 
What is the genitive plural of the words: woman, 
child, boy, lady, girl? . .. How do we express the 
genitive of the noun if it is not a person or an animal 
that something belongs to? ... May we use only the s- 
genitive when we speak of persons? ... 
418 
