Chapter Forty-Four (44). 
The Forty-Fourth (44th) Chapter. 
ENGLISH MONEY 
Marshall and Storm have been working hard the whole 
ma:fdl and sto:m hav bi:n wa:kiy ha:d da houl 
morning and are now waiting for the lunch hour. A 
mo:niy dnd a: nau weitiy fa da l\nf aua . a 
few of the clerks have lunch from twelve to one, but 
fju: au 6a kla.ks haev l\nf fram twelv ta w\n, bat 
all the others from one to two. Suddenly, the clock in 
o:l di \daz fram w\n ta tu:. s\dnli 9 da klok in 
the office strikes one. “I knew it had struck half past 
di ofis straiks w\n. “ai nju: it had strxk ha:f pa:st 
twelve, but I had begun to think it would never reach 
twelv , bat ai had bi'g\n ta piyk it wad neva ri:tf 
one o’clock,” says Marshall. 
w\n a'kloksez ma.fal. 
The two young men now got up, went to the restaurant 
da tu: j\y men nau got a p 9 went ta da restaro.y 
where they usually had their lunch, and sat down. 
hwea dei ju:$uali haed dea /ah/, and saet daun. 
They at once began to look at the menu, a long list of 
dei at w\ns bi'gaen ta luk at da menjua lay list av 
the different sorts of food that one could get. A little 
da difrant so:ts av fu:d dat w\n kad get. a litl 
later, they saw the young lady who served at their 
leita , dei so: da j\y leidi hu: sa:vd at dea 
He strikes> 
he struck, 
he has struck 
[straiks , str\k, 
str\k]. 
419 
Chapter Forty-Four (44). 
table, coming to take their order. “Here comes the 
teibl, kxmiy ta tcik dear o:da. “hia kxmz da 
waitress,” said Storm; “I’m glad to see her, for I’m very 
weitris," sed sh:m; “aimglxd la si: ha:, far aim veri 
hungry to-day.” 
hxygri iadei” 
place = put 
They ordered their lunch, and in two or three minutes 
dei o:dad dea l^nf, and in tu: a pri: minits 
the waitress was back again, carrying the food on a 
da weilris waz bxk a'gein , kaeriiy da fu:d an a 
tray. One of the most important things on the 
trei. wxn av da moust im'pa.tant piyz an da 
waitress’s tray was a big pot of tea. Storm had now 
weitrisiz trei waz a big pat av ti:. sta:m had nan 
learned to drink tea as often as an Englishman. The 
la:nd la driyk ti: az a:fn az an iyglifman. da 
waitress placed the pot of tea and the other things on 
weitris pleist da pat av ti: and di xda pirjz an 
the table and went away. Although the food had been 
da teibl and went awei. a:l'dou da fu:d had bi:n 
placed on the table, Storm continued to look at the 
pleist an da teibl, sta:m kan'tinju:d ta Ink at da 
prices on the menu. “I thought you said you were 
praisiz an da menju:. (, ai pa:t jn: sed ju: wa: 
hungry, but you seem to be much more interested in 
hxygri, bat ju: si:m ta bi: mxtf ma:r intristid in 
the menu than in the food itself,” Marshall said to him, 
da menju: dan in da fu:d itself ,” ma:fal sed ta him. 
420 
The Forty-Fourth (44th) Chapter. 
smiling. Storm replied that the prices interested him 
smailiy. sto:m ri'plaid dot do praisiz intristid him 
a great deal, and finished by asking Marshall to tell a great deal = 
9 greit did, dnd finift bai a:skiy ma:fdl td tel very much 
him something about English money and coins. He 
him s\mpiy d'baut iyglif m\ni ond koinz. hi: 
explained that these things were difficult for a stranger 
iks'pleind ddt di:z piyz u)d: difikdlt far 9 streindp 
to get used to, because nearly the whole world uses the 
t9 get ju:st tu, bi'koz nioli 69 houl u)9:ld ju:ziz 69 
decimal system. “Even the Americans, who use the 
desimdl sistim . ,( i:von di o'merikonz, hu: ju:z di 
English system of weights and measures, have their 
iyglif sistim 9V weits 9nd mepz, haev bed 
dollar which is equal to a hundred cents,” said Storm. 
dolo hwitf iz i:kwal tu 9 h\ndr9d sentssed sto:m. 
“I always have great trouble in understanding the 
“at o:lw9Z haev greit tr\bl in Ando'staendiy 69 
prices in the shops in London. You have more than 
praisiz in to fops in l\nddn. ju: haev mo: ton 
one way of saying the same thing, at least when it 
w\n wei 9 V seiiy 69 seim piy, 9 t li:st hwen it 
comes to money.” 
k\mz t 9 m\ni 
“You must know quite a lot of these things already, 
"ju: most nou kwait 9 lot ov di:z piyz o:l'redi. 
seeing that you have been here almost a month. But I 
sidy dot ju: hov bi:n hior o:lmoust 9 m\np. bot ai 
seeing that 
421 
Chapter Forty-Four (44). 
think it will be better if I explain to you all the details 
pigk it wit bi: betdr if ai iks'plein id ju: o:l id di. teilz 
of our monetary system, especially as you seem to have 
av aud m\nitari sisiim , ispejali dz ju: si:m id hsev 
so much trouble in finding out what things really 
sou m\tf trAbl in jaindiy aut hwot pigz rhli 
cost,” Marshall told his friend. “I should be glad if you 
kost” ma:Jdl iould hiz frend . "ai Jdd bi: glced if ju: 
would give me all the details about English money. 
wdd giv mi: o:l dd di:teilz obaut igglif mAni. 
Before you start, however, you had better pour me 
bi'fo: ju: sta:t, haueva , ju: had beta pa: mi: 
another cup of tea,” Storm said. 
an Ada kAp av sto :m sed. 
Some of the tea went on the table and over the edge 
s\m av da ti: went on da teibl and ouva di ed$ 
of the table on to the floor. Marshall said, “I’m sorry, 
av da teibl on to da jlo:. ma:fal sed , “aim sori , 
I wasn't very careful, but it doesn't matter so much as 
ai woznt veri keoful , bat it dAznt mxla sou mAtf az 
there is no cloth on the table, and the floor isn't very 
daz nou klop on da teibl , and da jlo:r iznt veri 
clean. If you want a restaurant where they have cloths 
kli:n. if ju: wont a restarorg hwea dei haw klops 
on the tables and clean floors, you must pay more for 
on da teiblz and kli:n \lo:z , ju: mast pei mo: ja 
your meals,” he continued laughing. "But if you will 
jo: mi:lz" hi: kan'tinju.d la:jig. “bat if ju: wil 
422 
The Forty-Fourth (44th) Chapter. 
pass me the sugar, I will start. I like a lot of sugar in 
pa:s mi: do fugd , ai wil sta:t. ai laik a lot dv fugor in 
my tea, in my coffee — in everything, in fact. I love 
mai ti: 9 in mai kofi — in evripig , in jxkt. ai Iav 
sweet things.” Storm told him that he never took sugar 
swi:t pig 2 ” sto:m tould him ddt hi: nevd tuk fugor 
in tea or coffee, because he didn’t like sweet things. 
in ti: 0 : kofi 9 bVkoz hi: didnt laik swi:t pig 2 . 
In fact, he didn’t like anything that was full of sugar. 
in fxkt , hi: didnt laik enipig dot wdz ful ov fugd . 
Marshall began by explaining that there are pounds, 
ma:fdl bi'gxn bai ikspleinig ddt deor a: paundz , 
shillings, pence, and farthings in the English monetary 
Jiligz , pens , and fa:digz in di igglif mAnilori 
system. “A pound,” he continued, “is divided into 
sistim . “a paund ,” hi: kontinju:d 9 “iz di'vaidid intd 
twenty shillings, a shilling into twelve pence, and a 
twenti filigz, a filig intd twelv pens , and a 
penny into four farthings. At one time a pound was 
peni intd jo: ja:digz. a/ WAn taim a paund woz 
always a gold coin, called a sovereign because the 
o:lwoz a gould koin , ko:ld a sovrin bi'koz do 
king’s head was to be found on one side of it. There 
kiyz hed woz to bi: faund on w\n said ov it. deo 
was a ten shilling coin, too, also made of gold, that was 
woz a ten filig koin , tu: t o.lsou ineid ov gould, dot woz 
in fact = in 
reality 
sovereign = king 
called a half-sovereign. In nearly every country of the 
ko:ld 0 ha: f sovrin. in nioli evri k\ntri ov do 
423 
Chapter Forty-Four (44). 
American Indian 
world three metals were used for coins before the war 
Wd:ld pri: metlz wo: ju:zd fo koinz bi'fo: do wo:r 
of 1914—1918. Gold had the greatest 
ov nainti.n fo:ti:n to nainti.n eiti:n. gould heed do greilist 
value of the three metals that were used for money, 
veelju: ov to pri: metlz dot wo: ju:zd f 9 m\ni 9 
&nd silver was next in value. Silver is the sort of metal 
9nd silv9 u)9z nekst in veelju:. silv9r iz 69 so:t 9V metl 
my parents' forks and spoons are made of," Marshall 
mai peoronts fo:ks 9nd spu:nz a: meid ov 9 " ma:/9l 
explained. “The third metal was copper, a metal of a 
iks'pleind. “do p9:d metl W9Z kop9 , 9 metl 9 V 9 
red colour. Copper is the same colour as an American 
red kslo. kop9r iz 69 seim k\lor 9Z 9n omerikon 
Indian. Nowadays, however, it would be very difficult to 
indj9n. nauodeiz, hau'evo 9 it W9d bi: veri difik9lt t9 
find a gold coin; paper money is used instead. In Eng- 
faind 9 gould koin; peip9 m\ni iz ju:zd iristed . in in¬ 
land we use a pound note and a ten shilling note instead 
ghnd wi: ju:z 9 paund nout 9nd 9 ten filiy nout in'sted 
of the gold sovereign and half-sovereign. Until some 
9 V bd gould sovrin ond ha:fsovrin. \n'til s\m 
time after the war of 1939—1945 
taim a:ft 9 do wo:r 90 nainti:n pd:ti nain to nainti.n fo:ti faiv , 
we had coins that people spoke of and thought of as 
wi: heed koinz dot pi-pi spouk ov ond po:t ov oz 
silver coins. In reality, we had no coins in England 
silvo koinz. in ri'&liti , wi: heed nou koinz in iyglond 
424 
The Forty-Fourth (44th) Chapter. 
that were made of silver only; we had no coins of 
dat wa: meid av silvar ounli; wi: hved noil koinz av 
any sort or size that were made of pure metals. Less 
eni so:t a: saiz dat wa: meid av pjua mellz . les 
than half of the metal of the so-called silver coins was 
dan ha:f av da metl av da souka.ld silva kainz waz 
silver. However, in order to pay America in silver some 
silva. haiieva y in a:da ta pei a'merika in silva s\m 
of the money we owe her, we changed instead to a 
av da m\ni wi: oil ha: y wi: lfeind$d in'sled lu. a 
mixture of copper and nickel. The old copper coins, 
miksljar av kapar and nikl. di ould kapa kainz , 
however, have not been changed and are still the same 
haueva , hav nal bi:n tfcindjd and a: stil da seim 
as they were, made of a mixture of copper and some 
az dei wa: y meid av a mikstfar av kapar and s\m 
other metal. The world is full of paper money, and it 
a da metl. da wa:ld iz ful av peipa m\ni y and it 
is hardly possible to find a coin of any real value. It 
iz ha:dli pasabl ta faind a kain av eni rial vtelju:. it 
is not very often that coins are pure; they’re mostly 
iz not veri o:fn dat kainz a: pjua; dea moustli 
mixtures of at least two metals. Now I will tell you 
mikst/az av at li:st tu: metlz. nau ai wil tel ju: 
about the English coins and at the same time show 
a'baut di iyglif kainz and at da seim taim foil 
you what they look like, for I have some in my pocket.” 
ju: hwat dei Ink laik y jar ai hwv s\m in mai pakit .” 
425 
Chapter Forty-Four (44). 
a half-crown = 
two shillings 
and sixpence 
as to - about 
Marshall put his hand in his trouser pocket and brought 
ma.fol put hiz found in hiz trauzo pokil dnd bro:t 
out a number of coins. He showed Storm four copper 
aut a nxmbor dv koinz. hi: fond sh:m jo: kopd 
coins: a farthing which is a quarter of a penny; a half- 
koinz: a I a: dig hwitf iz a kwo.tor ov a peni; a hei- 
penny; a penny; and a threepenny bit. He also had four 
pni; a peni; dnd a prepdni bit . hi: o.lsou foud fo:r 
of the new coins: a sixpence; a shilling; a two-shilling 
dv id nju: koinz: a sikspons; a filig; '<> tu: filig 
piece (a florin); and a half-crown. “We used to have a 
pi:s (d florin); ond a 'ha:f kraun. “wi: ju:st Id fovv a 
crown, too,” said Marshall, “but the size of the coin 
kraun, tu:” sed ma.fol, “bot do saiz ov do koin 
was too great.” “That is all quite easy to understand,” 
woz tu: greit.” “dxt iz o:l kwail i:zi tu \nddsliund 
Storm told him, “but will you also explain to me the 
sto:m tould him, “bot wit ju: o:lsou iks plein to mi: do 
different ways in which people give prices, for some- 
difront weiz in hwitf pi:pl giv praisiz, fo s.\/n- 
times when I hear a price, I don’t know how much it 
taimz hwen ai hior a prais , ai dount nou hau m\tf it 
is, and, consequently, I am in doubt as to how much I 
iz, ond, konsikwontli, ai om in daut az /a hau m\tf ai 
have to pay.” “I shouldn’t like you to be in doubt about 
hiev to pei .” ,( ai fudnt laik ju: to bi: in daut d'baut 
the price,” Marshall replied. “Now I will mention all 
do prais ” ma.fdl ri'plaid, “nau ai wit menfdn o:l 
426 
The Forty-Fourth (44th) Chapter. 
the different ways in which we give prices in writing 
do difrant weiz in hwitf wi: giv praisiz in raitig 
and in speaking. Five pounds is written £5. The letter 
and in spi:ki?j. faiv paundz iz riin ... da leta 
£ stands for the Latin word 'libra* or pound. Five 
. . stcendz fa da Lvtin wa:d 'laibra' o: pound . faiv 
shillings is written 5s. or 5/-, but fivepence is written 
filigz iz ritn . . o: . . , bat faifpans iz ritn 
5d. The letter d stands for 'denarius* which is the Latin 
... da tela di: slivndz fa ‘di'nearias hwitf iz da helin 
word for an old Roman coin. Now, two figures that are 
wa:d far an ould rouman koin. nan , tu: figaz dal a: 
not connected by 'and* mean pence and farthings. If 
not kanektid bai 'vend' mi:n pens and fa.digz. if 
I say 'five-three*, I mean fivepence three farthings, and 
aisei ‘faiv-pri:\ ai mi:n faifpans pri: fa.digz , and 
this is written 5%d. Two figures connected by ‘and’ 
dis iz riin . . . tu: figaz kanektid bai ‘vend' 
mean shillings and pence, so that if I say five-and- 
mi:n filigz and pens , sou dat if ai sei faiv-and- 
three, I mean five shillings and threepence; this is 
pri: t ai mi:n faiv filigz and prepans; dis iz 
written 5/3. When speaking of pounds, we express 
ritn . . . hwen spi:kig av paundz , wi: iks pres 
ourselves in this way: three pounds five-and-three, 
aua'selvz in dis ivei: pri: paundz faiv-and-pri :, 
which means three pounds five shillings and threepence, 
hwitf mi:nz pri: paundz faiv filigz and prepans , 
427 
Chapter Forty-Four (44). 
everybody else = 
any other person 
c/imv 
and is written £3/5/3.” 
and iz ritn ...” 
“Thank you, Marshall; it is all clear to me now, but I 
“pivrjk ju:, ma:fal; it iz o:l klia ta mi: nau, bat ai 
must say that I can’t see the advantage of having 
mast sei dat ai ka:nt si: di ad'va:ntid$ av hieviy 
pounds, shillings, pence, and farthings. It seems very 
paundz, Jiliyz, pens, and ja:diyz. it si:mz veri 
foolish to me, as shillings and pence would be quite 
fudif ta mi:, az JUiyz and pens wad bi: kwait 
enough.” “I might mention, Storm, that only English 
i'n\f." “ai mait menfan, sto:m, dat ounli irjglif 
business men would say £3/5/3. Nearly 
biznis men wad sei pri: paundz faiv-and-pri:. niali 
everybody else would prefer to express it 65/3. ” 
evribadi els wad pri'fa: tu iks'pres itsiksti'faivandpri:." 
“Then,” Storm answered, “there is no doubt that the 
“den," sto:m a:nsad, “daz nou daut dat di 
English system is foolish. In my country we always 
iyglif sistim iz fudif. in mai kxniri wi: odwaz 
say that it is foolish to do things in such a way that 
sei dat it iz fu:lif ta du: piyz in sxtf a wei dat 
they give extra work. But I think that we have spent 
dei giv ekslra wa:k. bat ai pirjk dat wi: hav spent 
enough time in talking about money. To finish my meal 
i'n\f taim in to:kiy abaut m\ni . ta finif mai mid 
I should like some cheese and another cup of tea. I find 
ai fad laik sam tji:z and anxda kxp av ti:. ai faind 
428 
The Forty-Fourth (44th) Chapter. 
that the cheese in England is very good, and I always 
dat da tji:z in iygland iz veri gud , dndai odivaz 
have a piece of bread and cheese for supper.” ‘‘Yes,” 
hxv a pi:s av bred dnd tfi:z fa s\pa” “jes,” 
said Marshall, “bread, a bit of cheese, and a good glass 
sed ma:fal, “bred, a bit av lfi:z, 9nd 9 gud gla:s 
of beer make a fine end to the day. I like a glass of' 
9V bh mcik 9 fain end ta da dei . ai laik 9 gla:s av 
beer before going to bed.” 
bia bi fa: gouiy ta bed.” 
EXERCISE A. 
When the clock — one, Storm and Marshall went out to 
lunch. Storm was interested in the prices on the — 
The — came with a — of tea and the food on a — and 
— it on the table. The American — is equal to one 
hundred — Sometimes Storm had much — in under¬ 
standing English money and prices, so he wanted 
Marshall to give him all the — of their monetary 
system. Some of Storm’s tea went over the — of the 
table on to the floor. There was no — on the table in 
the restaurant. Marshall asked Storm to — the sugar; 
he liked — things very much. Once, a pound was a — 
coin called a —. 
Spoons and forks are sometimes made of —. — has not 
so great a — as silver; it is red like an-. Nowadays 
most coins are not made of — metals. Marshall took 
several coins out of his —; there were four copper 
coins: a threepenny bit, a penny, a —, and a —. A- 
is equal to threepence. Two threepenny bits have the 
bit = (small) 
piece 
WORDS: 
strike 
struck 
menu 
waitress 
pot 
tray 
place (verb) 
dollar 
cent 
trouble 
detail 
edge 
cloth 
pass 
sweet 
gold 
sovereign 
429 
Chapter Forty-Four (44). 
half-sovereign 
silver 
copper 
value 
American 
Indian 
pure 
pocket 
halfpenny 
farthing 
threepenny 
bit 
florin 
half-crown 
crown 
doubt 
foolish 
cheese 
beer 
red 
Latin 
denarius 
order 
clear 
a great deal 
in fact 
nickel 
libra 
same value as a —.A — is equal to two shillings. One 
— is equal to two shillings and sixpence. Now and then 
Storm was in — about the prices in the shops. He found 
it — to have both pounds and shillings. Marshall and 
Storm liked bread and — and a glass of —. 
EXERCISE B. 
Answer these questions with full sentences: 
Did you learn any foreign language at school? ... Are 
you interested in football? . .. Did you play football at 
school? . . . Have you any brothers or sisters? . . . Where 
did you spend your last summer-holidays? . . . Did you 
travel by land or by sea? ... Was the weather good? ... 
Did you spend much money? ... Do you like to go to 
the theatre, or do you prefer to see a good picture? ... 
How do you like singing? . . . 
EXERCISE C. GRAMMAR. 
Adjectives [wd$iktivz\ are words that say what things 
or persons are like. Examples: I have a big dog; he is 
often dirty; when he is clean , he is a nice dog. In these 
sentences ‘big’, ‘dirty’, ‘clean’, and ‘nice’ are adjectives, 
and each of these adjectives tells us something about the 
‘dog’, which is a noun. Other adjectives are: high, 
beautiful, kind, blue, good, bad, whole, big, great, and 
many others. 
Adjectives may be used to make comparisons. When 
used in this way, -er and -est are added to them. In 
the sentence, “My dog is cleaner than yours, but Henry’s 
430 
The Forty-Fourth (44th) Chapter. 
is the clean est of the three,” a comparison is made 
between the dogs. When -er is added to an adjective, 
we say that the adjective is in the comparative [karri'par- 
rat iu]\ when -est is added, the adjective is said to be 
in the superlative [sju:' pa:lativ\. 
There are several things to notice about the compara¬ 
tive and the superlative of adjectives. If an adjective 
already has an V as the last letter, only .-r and -st are 
added, for example: nice, nicer, nicest. 
Most adjectives that end in ‘y’ change ‘y* to ‘i* in the 
comparative and the superlative, for example: dirty, 
dirtier, dirtiest. 
In some adjectives of one syllable the last letter is 
written twice before -er or -est is added; for instance: 
big, bigger, biggest. 
Long adjectives do not add -er and -est, but comparison 
is expressed by the help of more and most: She is more 
beautiful than her sister, and the most beautiful girl I 
know. 
Some adjectives have special comparatives and super¬ 
latives. For example: good, better, best; many, more, 
most; much, more, most. 
Questions: 
What are adjectives? .. . Write some examples of adjec¬ 
tives. .. . What are the comparatives and the superla¬ 
tives of the following adjectives: warm, large, hot (add 
an extra -t), blue, red (add an extra -d), hard, kind, 
cheap, loud, good, many, much, early, dry, funny? . .. 
431 
Chapter Forty-Four (44). 
EXERCISE D. 
Write the following with the usual letters of the alphabet: 
l\ndon , di eitp ov o.gost. 
did wud , 
ai risi:vd jo: lelo dis mo:niy ond woz veri glwd to ri:d o'baut 
jo: trip houm. ai hov mist ju: o:l veri m\tf , is'pefoli do fo:sl 
deiz a:jto ju: left, ai jett kwait oloun in dis grcit siti , bot ai 
om hvepi to bi: eibl to tel ju: dot ai o.l'rcdi ji:l m\ij mo:r 
ot houm nau. do mein ri::n jo dis , ai nou , iz dot o j\y mien 
ot auor ojis bai do neim ov ma:Jol , od'redi on do jo:st dei 
ojod mi: o ru:m ot hiz peoronts haus. ai teik o:l mai mi:lz 
wid do ma:folz t ond dei o:l du: deo best to meik mi: ji:l dot 
ai rioli bi'loy to do fwmili. 
it iz iu: o:li to tel ju: m\tf o'baut mai wo:k; ai most non it 
o lift beto fo:st. ai hov bi:n pleist in do koris'pondons di'pa:i- 
mont , ond ju: kon \ndoslwnd dot ai felt o ra:dor inipo:tonl 
po:sn 9 hwen deo woz o letor in mai oun livygwid j tu a:nso 
o:l'redi on mai sekond dei ot di ojis. bot ai didnt ji:l ha:j 
sou im'podont hwen ai jaiind dot ai lucd lu a:sk o hxndrod 
slreindf kwestfonz in di a do di'padmonis in o:do to gel do 
rait injo'meifon o'baut do mivtor in mai leto — bi koz ai did 
not nou di irjglif wo:dz. 
po'hceps ju: wit bi: sou kaind oz to ko:l mai sistor on do 
telijoun ond a:sk ho: to send mi: som linin. fi: wit jaind 
o:l mai pirjz in do tfest ov dro:oz in mai ru:m. mai m\dor 
iz in do k\niri on holidi , ju: nou , ond ai dount nou hwedo 
mai sistor iz ot houm o: steiiy wid o go:l /rend, oz fi: o:fn 
d\z. bot ju: mei ko:l ho:r ot di ojis hweo fi: wo:ks. 
pli:z ri'membo mi: to braun ond misto milo. 
jo:z sin'sioli, 
sto:m 
432 
