Chapter Forty-Five (45). 
The Forty-Fifth (45th) Chapter. 
A FOOTBALL MATCH 
One day in September, when the football season had 
w\n dei in sap'temba , Jvwen da futbj.l si:zn had 
begun, Marshall asked Storm if he would like to go 
big\n, ma:fdl a:skt stj.m if hi: wdd laik ta gou 
to a football match with him. “Are you doing-anything 
tn a futbj.l mcetf zvid him. “a: ju: du:iy enipiy 
else next Saturday, or is that day convenient to you?” 
els nekst scetddi . j:r iz dcet dei kanvi:njdnt tu ju:. ? ” 
Storm: “No, I have nothing else on, so that Saturday 
stj:m: “non, ai hdv ha pi] els an, sou dot scetadi 
afternoon will be quite convenient to me. I shall be 
a:fta'nu:n zvil bi: kzvait kan'vi :n jant tu mi:, ai fal bi: 
very pleased to go to the match with you. I wonder 
veri pli.zd ta gou ta da mcetf zvid ju:. ai WAndar 
if the kind of football we are going to see is the same 
if da kaind av futba:l zvi: a: gouiy ta si: iz da seim 
kind as we have at home, for I know that you have two 
kaind az zvi: Inez 1 at houm, far ai non dat ju: hcev tu: 
kinds of football in England.” Marshall: “Yes, we have 
kaindz av futbj.l in iygland ” mo:fal: “jes, zvi: hcez r 
two kinds of football. The game we are going to see 
tu: kaindz av futbj.l. da geim zvi: a: gouiy ta si: 
on Saturday is the one you know, so you will not have 
an scetadi iz da wau ju: nou, sou ju: zvil not hcev 
have nothing else 
on = have nothing 
else to do 
kind = sort 
12/1 
433 
Chapter Forty-Five (45). 
Rugby football 
any difficulty in following it. The other kind is called 
eni difikdlti in folouiy it. di Add kaind iz kj:ld 
Rugby after the famous school where it was first 
rxgbi a:ftd dd feimds skud hwedr it Wdz fd:st 
played.” Storm: “I have never seen any Rugby foot- 
pleid” sto:m: “ai hdv nevd si:n eni r\gbi fut- 
ball.” “Then you would not understand much of it, 
bo:l. m “den jn: wdd not Andd' stand niAtf dv it, 
for the rules of the game are quite different from those 
fd dd ru:lz dv dd geim a: kwait difrdnt frdm done 
of the kind of football you know. There are fifteen 
dv dd kaind dv futbo:l jn: nou. ded 'fiftirn 
players; they may carry the ball in their hands if they 
pleidz; dei met kari dd bo:I in dfd handz if dei 
like; and the ball itself is not round.” 
laik; dnd dd bod it'self iz not raund. ,y 
“I am very surprised,” Storm replied; “I have never 
“ai din veri sd'praizd”' sto:m ri'plaid ; “ai hdv nevd 
heard how it is played, but from what you say, I under- 
hd:d hau it iz pleid, b.\t frdm hwot ju: sei, ai Andd- 
stand that the rules of the game must be very different 
'stand ddt dd ru:lz dv dd geim mdst bi: veri difrdnt 
from the rules of the kind of football that is played in 
frdm dd ru:lz ov dd kaind dv futbod ddt iz pleid in 
my country. I don’t see how it is possible to kick a ball 
mai kAntri. ai daunt si: hau it iz posdbl to kik d bod 
straight if it’s not round. I’m sure it must be much 
st) eit if its not raund. aim fuor it most bi: mAtf 
434 
The Forty-Fifth (45th) Chapter. 
more difficult to kick the ball to the right man.” “Well! 
mo: difikdlt td kik da bo:l ta da rait mcen” “wel! 
wait till some other time, and you’ll see for yourself 
weit til s\m Ada taint , and ju:l si: fa jo:'self 
how it is done.” 
hau it iz d-Ati” 
Saturday had come, and Marshall and Storm were on 
scctadi had k\m , and ma:fal and sto:m zva:r on 
their way to the match. They went by bus to the 
dea wei ta da mcetf. dei went bcii b\s ta da 
nearest Underground station. As it was rather late, 
niarist Andagraund stcifan. az it waz ra:da leit, 
they jumped on a bus after it had started moving. 
dei d^Ainpt on a Ijas a:ftar it had sta:tid mu:viy. 
People in London often jump on and off the buses 
pi: pi in l Mid an o:fn d$Ainp on and o:f da bAsiz 
while they are moving, in order to save time. Having 
hwail dei a: mu:viy, in o:da ta seiv tairn. hceviy 
arrived at the Underground station, they went down to 
a'raivd at di Andagraund steijan, dei went dann ta 
the platform. Storm: “It’s quite a long way down to 
da plcetfo.m. sto:m: C( its kwait a log wei dann ta 
the platform; it must be very deep under the ground.” 
da plcetfo:m: it niAst hi: veri di:p Anda da ground” 
Marshall told him that some lines of the Underground 
ma.fal tould him dat saui lainz av di Andagraund 
railways are only just under the ground, but that he 
reilweiz a:r ounli d^ASt Anda da ground , bAt dat hi: 
12/2 
435 
Chapter Forty-Five (45). 
was right in saying that this line was very far down, 
wdz rail in seiiy ddt dis lain wdz veri fa: daun, 
and he added that it was the deepest in London. The 
and hi: eedid ddt it wdz dd di:pist in lAnddn. dd 
train came into the station, and the doors opened. There 
trein keim intd dd steijdn, dtid dd do:z oupdnd. dfd 
behind = at the 
back of 
were so many people just behind the two friends that 
wd: sou meni pi:pi d^ASt bi'haind dd tu: fretidz ddt 
it was hardly necessary for them to do anything to 
it zvdz ha:dli nesisdri fa: ddm td du: enipiy td 
get into the carriage; they were pushed into it by the 
get intd dd k err id 3; dei z vd: puft intu it hai dd 
people behind them; but many of those who were 
pi:pi bi'haind ddm; bdt meni dv douz hu: zvd: 
standing behind them did not get into the carriage, 
steendiy bi'haind ddm did tut get intd dd kerrid 3, 
because there was no more room, and then the doors 
bi'kjz dfd zodz non nu: nan, dtid den dd do:z 
closed. 
klouzd. 
“People don’t usually push so much as they did on 
(t pi:pl dount jicyidli puj sou niAtf dz dei did on 
this platform,” said Storm; but Marshall only laughed, 
dis plertfj’.m” sed stj:m; bdt ma:fdl ounli la:ft, 
saying, “Remember that you are going to a football 
seiiy , “ri'mcmbd ddt ju: a: gouiy tu d futbo:l 
match. We are interested in many different games in 
niectf. zvi: a:r intnstid in meni difrdnt geimz in 
436 
The Forty-Fifth (45th) Chapter. 
this country, but in the eyes of most English people 
dis k\ntri, bat in di aiz av moust iyglif pi:pi 
football is the best game.” Storm: “I noticed that the 
futba.7 iz da best geim” sta:m: “ai nontist ddt dd 
doors opened and closed of themselves. How long have 
d):z oupdmi and klonzd av dam'sclvz. hau hj hav 
you had doors which open and close automatically?” 
ju: herd da:z JmdtJ onpan and klouz o:ta'mertikali?” 
“I can’t tell you how long we have had them, but you 
iC ui ha:nt tel ju: hau lay wi: hav herd dam, bat ju: 
know that during the last fifty years so many inventions 
non eht djuariy dala:st fifti jiaz sou meni in'venjanz 
have been made which save us much time and money, 
hav bi:n meid hivitj seiv as in\tj toim and m\ni, 
as for instance doors which work automatically. To the 
az far instans da:z hwitj wa:h a:ta'mertikali. ta di 
Underground this invention is very useful. It is no 
Midagraund dis iit'venjan iz veri ju:sful. it iz nou 
longer necessary to have two or three men to shut 
layga nesisari ta lieev tu: a pri: men ta f.\t 
the doors of the trains, for now they are all shut by 
da da:z av da treinz, fa non dei a:r j:l j\t bai 
one man.” 
w\n merit” 
Marshall told Storm that they were going to see the 
ma:fal tould sta:m dat dei wa: gouiy ta si: da 
famous Arsenal football club, which is one of the most 
feimas a:sinl futba:l kl\b, hwitj iz wan av da moust 
shut the door = 
close the door 
He shuts, he shut, 
he has shut |7 a/.?. 
/At, /At]. 
437 
Chapter Forty-Five (45). 
by reason of its 
many good players 
= because it has 
so many good 
players 
Arsenal = the 
Arsenal players 
He beats, he beat, 
he has beaten 
[bi:ts, bi:t, bi:tn]. 
He wins, he won, 
he has won [wine, 
wA.n, IV Ail ]. 
seldom = very 
few times 
rush = run with 
great speed 
famous clubs in the world by reason of its many good 
feimds klAbz in da wa:ld bai ri:zn dv its meni gud 
players. Storm had once seen Arsenal at home, where 
pleiaz. sto:m had wavs si:n a:sinl at houm , hzvra 
they had beaten his own country by 4—1. 
dei had bi:tn hiz oun kAntri bai fa: ta u’ail 
Marshall: “That is not strange, because they have 
ma:fal: “dcct iz not streind 3, bi'koz dei hav 
nearly always won when playing on the Continent. 
niali o:lwaz zv\n Invert pleiiy on da kontinant. 
It is very seldom that a foreign club is able to beat 
it iz veri seldom dat a forin klAb iz eibl ta bi:t 
them. I expect that they will win this afternoon, too, 
dant. ai iks'pekt dat dei wil zvin dis a:fta'nu:n, tu:, 
as they are playing so well this year.” 
az dei a: pleiiy sou zvel dis jia ” 
A few minutes later the train stopped, and the people 
a fju: minits leita da trein stopt, and da pi:pi 
rushed out of the train to get up to the street as quickly 
r a jt aut av da trein ta get a p ta da striit az kzvikli 
as possible. Storm had never seen people rush about 
az posabl. storm had neva si:n pi:pi taJ a'baut 
so much as they do in London, especially in the City 
sou 77/a// az dei du: in lAndan, is'pefali in da siti 
and when going to games of some kind. While they 
and liwcn gouiy ta geimz av jaw kaind. hzvail dei 
were waiting for the game to start, Marshall told Storm 
W3: wciti V f d dd 0 ei 'n ta sta:t, ma:fal tould sto:m 
438 
The Forty-Fifth (45th) Chapter. 
something about the English football clubs: “In the 
sAmply a'baut di iyglif futbaA kUbz: “in da 
best known football clubs in England the players are 
best noun futba:l kUbz in iy gland da pleiaz a: 
professionals, which means that football is their work, 
pra'fefanalz, hwitj mi: ns dat futba:l iz dea wa:k, 
not only a game that gives them pleasure. As it is 
nat ounli a geirn dat givz dam ple$a. az it iz 
necessary for a professional football player to be able 
nesisari far a pra'fefanal futbaA pleia ta bi: eibl 
to run very fast, he must not only have good legs, but 
ta r.\n veri fa:st, hi: mast not oiodi hcev gud legz, bat 
also very good lungs. It is also very important to have 
a:lsou veri gud Uyz. it iz a:lsou veri im'pa:tant ta hcev 
a strong heart. Without especially good lungs and a 
a stray ha A. ivid'aut is'pefali gud l\yz and a 
strong heart, a man will not be able to last very long 
stray ha:t , a mcen wil nat bi: eibl ta 7 a:st veri lay 
as a professional. These are two of the most important 
az a pra'fefanal. di:z a: tu: av da moust im'paAant 
things required of a professional, but, besides, he has 
piyz ri'kwaiad av a pra'fefanal, b\t, bi'saidz, hi: hcez 
to be in very good health, for if he has not got that, 
ta bi: in veri gud help, far if hi: haz nat gat dcet , 
he cannot play football. A professional must, therefore, 
hi: kcenat plei futbaA. a pra'fefanal niASt, deaf a:, 
give much attention to his health. These players are 
giv m Atf a'ten fan ta his help. di:z pleiaz a: 
lungs 
heart 
to last = to 
continue 
to be in good 
health = not to 
be ill 
give attention to 
— attend to 
12/3 
439 
Chapter Forty-Five (45). 
nearly always thinking of their health, giving it even 
nidli a:lwaz piykiy av dea help . yiviy it i:van 
more attention than they give to their practice in playing 
ma:r a'tenfan dan dci yiv ta dra prcektis in pleihj 
football or their exercise in running, jumping, kicking, 
futba.l a: dear cksasaiz in rAiiiy, d^Ainpiy, kikiy, 
etc. Many of them smoke and drink very little. Just 
it'setra . mcni av dam sniouk and driyk veri litl. d^Ast 
as the ladies at Hollywood are proud of their legs, so, 
az da leidiz at luliwud a: praud av dea legz, sou, 
too, are professionals. The muscles of their legs are 
tu:, a: pra'fcfanalz. da inxslz av dea legz a: 
quite hard. They take exercise in running, kicking, 
kwait ha:d. dei teik eksasciiz in rAniij, kikiy, 
and jumping every day, and this makes the muscles 
and d^Ainpiy evri dei, and dis nieiks da iiiasIz 
of their legs hard.” 
av dea legz Jia:d” 
whistle 
Storm and Marshall had been waiting for the game to 
sto:m and ma:jal had bi:n iveitiy fa da geim ta 
start, and now the whistle was blown. Storm noticed 
sta:t, and nan da Jnvisl zvaz bloun. sta:m noutist 
that the grass was not particularly good, and in some 
dat da gra:s zcaz nat pa'tikjulali gud, and in SAm 
places he was even able to see the earth itself under 
plcisiz hi: zvaz i:van cibl ta si: di a:p if self a nda 
the grass. “Where I play football at home, you can 
da gra:s. “hzvear ai plci futba:l at honm, jti: kan 
440 
The Forty-Fifth (45th) Chapter. 
see nothing but grass,” he told Marshall. “You would 
si: n.Apifj bat gra:s*' hi: tould ma:fdl. “ju: wad 
not find any places where the earth might be seen.” 
rut faind eni pleisiz Invra di a:p nicvit hi: si:n.” 
Storm and Marshall soon saw that the Arsenal players 
sta:m and mu:jal su:n sa: dat di a.sinl pleiaz 
were much stronger than the players of the other club, 
wa: m.\If straijga dan da pleiaz av di \da kl.\b. 
Every time the ball was kicked over the white line at 
evri taiwi da ba:l waz kikt ouva da hzvait lain at 
the side by one club, the whistle was blown, and the 
da said bai zv.\n kUb, da hud si waz bloun , and da 
play stopped, until the other club had taken the ball 
plei stapt, \n til di \da kl.\b had teikn da ba:l 
and thrown it in again. Storm had very seldom seen 
and proun it in a'grin. sta:m had veri sold am si:n 
the players in a match throw the ball in so many times. 
da pleiaz in a mcetj prou da ba:l in sou meni taimz. 
The Arsenal players were playing against the wind, 
di a.sinl pleiaz wa: pleiiy a'yeinst da wind, 
but yet the first half of the match finished 2—1 in 
bat jet da fa:st ha:f av da mcetf f ini ft tu: wah in 
favour of Arsenal. In the second half of the game they 
feivar av a.sinl. in da sekand ha:f av da geim dei 
had the advantage of the wind, and with the wind behind 
herd di ad'va.ntid 3 av da wind, and wid da wind bthaind 
them they finished the match 5—1 in their favour. 
dam dei fin iff da mcetf faiv w,\n in dta feiva. 
He throws, he 
threw, he has 
thrown [pronz, 
pru:, proun]. 
favour (here) ~ 
advantage 
441 
Chapter Forty-Five (45). 
sport = swimming, 
riding, hunting, 
fishing, etc. 
step 
they’ve = they 
have 
to their credit = 
in their favour 
A large number of men were present either to take 
d laid 3 nxmbdr dv men wd: preznt aids td teik 
photographs or to write reports of the match for the 
foutdgraifs j • td rait ri'pjits dv dd liuctf fd dd 
newspapers, which always bring long reports of all that 
njuispeipdz, hwitf jilwdz brig hg ri'pjits dv Jil ddt 
has taken place in the world of sport. 
hdz teikn plcis in dd wild dv spjit. 
There had been about 50,000 people at the match, 
dfd hdd him o'bant fifti pauzdnd pi: pi dt dd inert f, 
and when the two friends left the place, it was almost 
dnd lnven dd tit: frendz left dd plcis, it wdz jihnoust 
impossible to take more than one short step at a time. 
im'pjsdbl td teik nu: ddn w\n fjit step dt d taiin. 
“It is rather tiring to have to take such small ladies' 
“it iz raidd taidrig td Jiecv td teik s\tf smjil leidiz 
steps,” said Marshall, laughing. Storm: “How many 
steps,” sed maifdl, la i fig. stdimi “ban meni 
matches have Arsenal played this season?” Marshall: 
mcctfiz hdv aisinl pleid dis siizn?” maifdl: 
“Counting the one to-day, they’ve played six times, but 
“kauntig dd w\n td'dei, deiv pleid siks taimz, bdt 
once they didn’t win, so that there are five matches 
WAns dci didnt win, sou ddt dfd faiv mertfiz 
to their credit. I remember that some years ago they 
td dfd kredit. ai ri'membd ddt s\m jidz d'gou dei 
played eighteen matches on the Continent and came 
pleid ei tun mertfiz jn dd kjntindnt dnd keim 
442 
The Forty-Fifth (45th) Chapter. 
back with all eighteen to their credit.” 
berk wid a :l 1 ei'ti:n ta dea kredit” 
They continued to discuss football, and during the 
dei kan l tinju:d td dis'k.\s futbaA, and djuariy da 
discussion Storm asked how long football had been 
dis'k\jan sta:m a:skt hau hy futbaA had bi:n 
played in England. “It has been played in some form 
pleid in iygland. “it haz bi:n pleid in saw fj:m 
or other for hundreds of years, but it has only been 
a:r Ada fa hxndradz av jiaz, bat it haz ounli bi:n 
played in its present form for about a hundred years.” 
pleid in its preznt fj:m far a'bant a hAndrad jiaz” 
When they reached the Underground station, they had 
hzven dei riAft di And aground steifan, dei had 
not yet finished their discussion of football. Marshall 
not jet f ini ft dea dis x k\fan av futbaA. ma:fal 
was telling Storm about the most important match of 
zvaz teliy sfj:m a'baut da nioust im'pjAant mcetf av 
the year, the one between England and Scotland. “The 
da jia, da wah bi'twi:n iy gland and skatland. “da 
number of people who go to a match like that is very 
nAmbar av- pi:pi hu: you tu a inertf laik dert iz veri 
great. One year there were 150,000 
greit. wah jia dea iva: wah hAndrad and fifti pauzand 
present in Glasgow. It’s not always the country that 
preznt in gla:sgou. its >ut aAvuaz da kAntri dat 
plays best that wins. The players know that the eyes 
pleiz best dat zvinz. da pleiaz non dat di aiz 
443 
Chapter Forty-Five (45). 
of 150,000 people are upon them, 
av WAn hAndrdd and fifti pcinzdnd pi:pi a:r a'pan ddin, 
and very often it gets on their nerves; it makes them 
and veri a:fn it gets on dr a na.vz; it meiks dam 
nervous. This means that it’s often the players who 
na:vas. dis mi.nz dat its a:fn da pleiaz hu: 
have the best nerves that win. Besides the match with 
hcev da best na:vz dat win. hi'saidz da nuetj wid 
Scotland, we play many international matches every 
skatland, wi: plei meni inta'mejanal imeifiz evri 
year, for example against France and Holland. Such 
jia, far ig'zarmpl a'geinst fra:ns and haland. s.\tf 
matches are called international matches, because 
mcetfiz a: ka:ld inta'nccfanal mcetfiz, bi'kaz 
players of different nations take part in them. I think 
pleiaz av difrant neifanz teik pa:t in daw. ai piyk 
that these international matches in the world of sport 
dat di:z inta'mefanal mcetfiz in da wa.ld av spa:t 
are of great importance in helping the different nations 
a:r av greit im'pa:tans in helpirj da difrant neifanz 
of the world to get a better understanding of each 
av da wa.ld ta get a bctar \nda'stcendit/ av i:tf 
other.” 
Ada.” 
444 
The Forty-Fifth (45th) Chapter. 
EXERCISE A. 
Marshall asked if it would be — to Storm to go to a 
football — on the following Saturday. In England they 
have a — of football called —, which has other — than 
the usual kind of football. The players — a ball which 
is not —. Marshall and Storm were rather late and 
— on a bus to be in time for their train. The platform 
was — under the ground. The two friends were — into 
the train by the people — them. One of the — which 
have been made during the last fifty years, is doors 
that open and-. One of the most famous football 
— is Arsenal. It has — many matches, and it is very 
— that it is — by other clubs on the Continent. When 
the train stopped, the people — up to the street. Two 
of the most important things required of a — football 
player are to have good — and a strong —. He must 
also give very much — to his —. The — of his legs 
are very hard. When the — was blown, the play 
started. In some places Storm could sec the — under 
the grass. When the ball was kicked out by one club, 
it was — in again by the other. The — finished in 
— of Arsenal, and now the club had five matches to 
its —. Many men had been present to write — for the 
newspapers, which write about all that takes place in 
the world of —. When the two friends left the place, 
they could only take one — at a time. They continued 
their — of football, which game has been played in 
England in some — or other for hundreds of years. In 
the — matches it is often the players with the best — 
that win. 
WORDS: 
kick 
round 
jump 
deep 
push 
convenient 
match 
kind 
rule 
behind 
invention 
shut 
automatically 
club 
win 
won 
seldom 
beat 
beaten 
rush 
professional 
lung 
heart 
attention 
health 
muscle 
whistle 
earth 
throw 
threw 
thrown 
game 
445 
Chapter Forty-Five (45). 
favour 
credit 
report 
sport 
step 
discussion 
form 
international 
nerve 
understanding 
count 
last 
EXERCISE B. 
Write about a game you are interested in. Do you 
take part in any sort of game yourself, or do you go 
to see matches between famous clubs? Tell us about 
some interesting facts connected with that game, in 
about 200—300 words. If you do not know all the right 
words, express what you mean in some other words. 
EXERCISE C. GRAMMAR. 
In the sentences: This is a tree; I saw a man; he gave 
me a big apple, the word “a” is called the indefinite 
article \in'dcfinit a:tiki]. 
The indefinite article, however, is not always “a”. 
Sometimes it is “an”. If the word which follows the 
indefinite article begins with a consonant \kansanant\. 
that is, b, d, d, p , f, y, h, j , k . /. m, h, p. r, s, /. s, /. 
v, w, the indefinite article is “a”. Examples: John is a 
boy. We have a tall tree in the garden. 
If the word which follows the indefinite article, be¬ 
gins, not with a consonant, but with a vowel | \vanal\, 
that is, a:, cc, ai, an, c, ci, a, a:, i, i:, ou, ai, u, u:, t:a, 
j, a:, it is “an”. Examples: I found an apple. My father 
is an old man. I have got an idea, but: I have got a 
good idea. 
Notice that it is the way in which the word is pro¬ 
nounced that matters. Sometimes the letter “u” is pro¬ 
nounced as \ju\ or | ju: |; then the indefinite article “a” 
is used in front of it: A usual thing; Oxford has a uni- 
446 
The Forty-Fifth (45th) Chapter. 
versity. Sometimes the letter “u” is pronounced [ \J, 
then the indefinite article is “an”: An uncle; an unusual 
thing. 
If the indefinite article is used before a word which 
begins with an “h” which is not pronounced, as for 
example “hour”, it takes the form “an”, not “a”. Ex¬ 
ample: An hour has sixty minutes; but: A hospital needs 
money. 
The word “the” we call the definite article [dcf'mit 
a:tikl\. In the sentences, “He took the book from the 
book-shelf in the sitting-room”, “the flowers in his 
garden are beautiful”, the word “the” is the definite 
article. The definite article is pronounced in two ways: 
| da | and | di \. It is pronounced \da\ in front of con¬ 
sonants, \di\ in front of vowels: The man [da mccn\; 
the old man \di ould linen |. Again it is the way the 
word is pronounced that matters: The uncle | di \ijkl\; 
the United States [da ju.'naitid steits j ; the hour [di aua \; 
the hospital [da Juspitl\. 
Questions: 
What are the two forms of the indefinite article in 
English? ... When do we use one, ^nd when the 
other? ... What is the definite article? ... What are 
the two pronunciations of the definite article, and when 
are they used? ... Which sounds are called vowels, 
and which consonants? ... 
12/4 
447 
