Chapter Forty-Six (46). 
The Forty-Sixth (46th) Chapter. 
on a Sunday = 
on Sundays 
as well = besides 
A SUNDAY MORNING 
IN THE EAST END 
Most people do not work on Sundays; they rest from 
moust pi:pi du: nat wa:k an s.\ndiz; del rest fram 
their usual work. In England, Sunday is therefore also 
dea ju:^ual wa:k. in iygland, s\ndi iz deafa.r a:Ison 
much on a Sunday. He often went into the country 
niAtf on a s\ndi. hi: o:fn went inta da kAntri 
or spent the day on the river; that was his kind of rest. 
o: spent da dei an da riva; dcet waz his kaind av rest. 
People in foreign countries think that Englishmen go 
pi:pl in farm kAntriz piyk dat iyglifman gou 
to church two or three times every Sunday, but as soon 
ta tja:tf tu: a pri: taints evri SAiidi, bat as su:n 
as they come to England, they make the discovery that, 
as dei k\m tu iygland, dei meik da dis'kAvari dat, 
although many Englishmen go to church, the English 
a.tdou meni iyglifman gou ta tfa:tf , di iyglif 
as a nation spend their Sundays doing many other things 
az a neifan spend dea SAndiz du.iy meni Ada piyz 
as well. Storm had been like other foreigners in this 
az wel. sta:m had bi:n laik Ada farinaz in dis 
The Forty-Sixth (46th) Chapter. 
matter and had made the same discovery: that Sunday 
mceta dnd had meid da seim dis'kAvari: dat SAndi 
in England is not what it is said to be. 
in iy gland iz nat hwat it iz sed ta bi:. 
One Sunday Marshall said to him, “I am sure that you 
w\n sAndi mu:jal sed ta him, “ai am fua dat ju: 
have wondered what people do in London on Sundays. 
hav w Alidad hwat pi: pi du: in l And an an SAndiz. 
If you have time, we could spend the whole day visiting 
if ju: lucv tairn , ivi: kad spend da houl dei vizitif) 
different interesting places. I will not tell you in 
difrant intristiy pleisiz. ai wil not tel ju: in 
advance what we’re going to see, but you may be sure 
ad'va:ns hwat wia gouiy ta si:, bat ju: mei bi: Jua 
that there will be many surprises.” “I should like 
dat dea wil bi: meni sa'praiziz.” <( ai fad laik 
nothing better,” Storm told Marshall. 
UApiy beta, ” sta:m tould ma:fal. 
To begin with, they went right through the City by 
ta bi'gin wid, dei went rait pru: da siti bai 
bus until they reached the East End. Here they 
bAs ah 1 til dei ri:tjt di i:st end. hia dei 
got off the bus. Storm had been to that part of London 
gat a:f da 1)as. sta:m had bi:n ta dcct pa:t av l And an 
before and was very pleased to be able to recognize it. 
In'fa: and waz veri pli:zd ta bi: eibl ta rekagnaiz it. 
Marshall: “London is so big, not only to a foreigner, 
ma:jal: u L\ndan iz sou big, nat oititli tu a farina, 
quite (here) = 
well 
seller = a man 
who sells goods 
but even to many Englishmen, so I can quite under- 
bdt i:vdn td meni iyglifman, sou ai kdn kwait Andd- 
stand that it must be very pleasant to recognize a place 
'stand ddt it m\st bi: veri pleznt td rckdgnaiz d plots 
where you have been before.” Storm and Marshall 
hwf.d ju: lidv bi:n bi'fo:” stj:m dnd ma:jdl 
now left the main street and entered a side street which 
nau left dd mein stri:t dnd cntdd d said stri:t hwitj 
was filled with thousands of people. Storm had seen 
wdz fild wid pauzdndz dv pi:pi. storm hdd si:n 
a crowd of 50,000 at the football match, and the 
d kraud dv fifti pauzond dt dd futbo:l rncetf, dnd dd 
crowd of people in this street seemed to be nearly as 
kraud dv pi:pi in dis stri:t si:md td bi: nidli dz 
big. Along both sides of the street there were sellers, 
big. d'hy boup saidz dv dd stri:t ded wd: seldz, 
who were crying at the top of their voices to make 
hu: wd: kraiirj dt dd top ov ded voisiz td meik 
people buy their goods. Each seller seemed to be 
pi:pi bai ded gudz. i:tf seld si:md td bi: 
trying to cry louder than his fellow-seller. The street 
traiirj td krai laudd ddn hiz felouseld. dd stri:t 
itself was rather narrow, and being so filled with 
it'self wdz ra:dd ncerou, dnd bi:irj sou fild wid 
people, it didn’t leave room for traffic of any kind. 
pi:pl y it didnt li:v rurm fd trcefik dv eni kaind. 
It was very different from the main street which was 
it wdz vcri difrdnt frdm dd mein stri:t hzvitf zvdz 
The Forty-Sixth (46th) Chapter. 
very wide, with room enough for the great bus traffic 
vcri waid , wid ru:m /'ha/ fa dd greit bxs trcefik 
to East London. Most of the side streets in this part 
tu i:st I And an. inoust av da said stri:ts in dis pa:t 
of the town, however, were not very wide. 
av da taun, hau'eva, n'a: nat vcri waid. 
Marshall: “A place of this kind, where people do their 
ma:fal: “a pleis av dis kaind , hwea pi:pl du: de.a 
buying not only in the shops, but in the street itself, 
baiiy nat ounli hi da Japs, bat in da stri.t it'self, 
we call a street market. All over the country we have 
wi: ka:l a stri.t nui:kit. a:l ouva da k.\ntri wi: hccv 
street markets like this.” 
stri:t n\a:kits laik dis.” 
Many of the sellers had baskets on their arms, others 
meni av da selaz herd ha:skits an dear a:wz, xdaz 
were holding up their goods in both hands, so that 
wa: houldiy a p dea gudz in boup hcendz, sou dat 
everybody might see what they had. If the goods were 
evribadi inait si: hwat dei head, if da gudz wa: 
not held up in this way, the sellers would not do so 
nat held \p in dis wei, da selaz wud nat du: sou 
much business. Storm and Marshall looked into many 
niAtf biznis. sta:m and ma:fal lukt inta meni 
of the baskets, sometimes asking the prices of the goods. 
av da ba:skits, sxmtaimz a:skiy da proisiz av da gudz. 
Storm heard that the prices were very low, but Mar- 
sta:m ha:d dat da praisiz wa: veri lou, bat nw:- 
wide = broad 
market 
to hold up = to 
lift 
He holds, he held, 
he has held [houldz, 
held . held]. 
quality = value shall, on seeing his surprise, told him that the quality 
fol, on si:iy hiz so'praiz, toidd him , dot do kzvoliti 
of the goods was just as low. “You can’t expect to get 
dv do (judz zvoz d^Ast ds lou. “ju: ka:nt iks'pekt td get 
goods of a high quality at such low prices,” he added. 
cjudz dv d hai kwjliti dt SAtj lou praisiz/' hi: cedid. 
When passing a woman with a basket of apples, they 
hzven pa:siy 3 wunion zvid d ba:skit dv ceplz , dei 
noticed that she was rubbing the apples hard to make 
noutist ddt fi: zvoz r.xbitj di ceplz ha:d td meik 
them shine. They would have quite liked some apples, 
ddi // Jain. dei umd hdv kwait laikt sdin ceplz , 
but after seeing the apples rubbed on her dirty dress, 
bdt a:ftd si:iy di ceplz twbd jn hd: (h:ti dres, 
they passed on without buying any. All the articles 
dei pa: st jn wid'aut baiiy eni. j: 1 di a.tiklz 
poor = bad they saw were cheap, but their quality was so poor 
dei sj: wd: tfi:p , bdt ded kwoliti wdz sou pud 
that they were not worth the money. Marshall said 
ddt dei Wd: not Wd:p dd m\ni m ma:fdl sed 
that although the prices were low, he had seldom 
ddt j:Vdou dd praisiz wa: lou, hi: hod seldom 
found anything worth buying, when he went to street 
found enipiij Wd:p baiiy hwen hi: went to stri:t 
markets. 
ma: kits. 
jr ( ) c { 7\ f o:kt o'Ijij, stj:mz so'praiz in'kri:st zuid 
The Forty-Sixth (46th) Chapter. 
each step they took. At last he turned to Marshall, 
i:tf step dei tak. dt la:st hi: ta:nd td ma:fal, 
and said, “Now I am beginning to discover that there 
and sed, “nau ai am bi'giniy ta dis'kwa dat dea 
are more sides to the English nation than I had thought; 
ma: saidz ta di iyglif neifan dan ai had pa:t; 
but I have also discovered that it is necessary to come discover = find 
bat ai hav a:lsou disk wad dat it iz nesisari ta kAin out 
to England in order to find out about them. I am sure 
tu iy gland in a:da ta faind ant a'baut dam. ai am Jua 
that when I return to my own country and tell people 
dat hwen ai ri'ta.n ta mai oun kAntri and tel pi:pl 
the facts about the English, most of them will not 
da fcekts a'baut di iyglif, moust av darn wil not 
believe me. If anybody had told me in advance that anybody = any 
bi'li:v mi:. if enibadi had tould mi: in ad'va:ns dat one 
it was possible to buy goods in the streets of London 
it waz pasabl ta bai gudz in da stri:ts az i l And an 
on a Sunday morning, I should not have believed it 
an a sAndi ma:niy, ai fad not hav bi'li:vd it 
myself.” Marshall: “Well, I told you before we started 
mai'self ” ma.fal: “wel, ai tould ju: bi'fa: wi: sta.’tid 
that you must prepare yourself for many surprises.” 
dat ju: mast pri'pea ja:' self fa meni sa'praiziz” 
Storm: “And I thought I had prepared myself for 
sta:m: u and ai pa:t ai had pri'pead mat'self far 
everything. But now I see that there is a surprise 
evripiy. bat nau ai si: dat daz a sa'praiz 
every minute or two for which I have not been pre- 
cvri mi nit a tu: fa hwitf ai hav rut bi:n pri- 
of course = it is 
understood 
pared.” Marshall: “Of course I might have told you 
'pead” ina:fal: “ av ka:s ai mait hai> tonld ju: 
all about our trip before we went out, but I thought 
a:l a'baut ana trip bi'fa: wi: went cnit, bat ai pe:t 
it would be still better to show you things without 
it wad bi: stil beta ta fou ju: piyz wid'aut 
beforehand = in 
advance 
telling you about them beforehand.” Storm: “You 
telifj ju: a'baut dam bi'fa:hccnd” sta:m: “ju: 
are quite right! Of course it has been much more fun 
a: kwait rait! av ka:s it haz bi:n m\tf nu: fxn 
for me in this way.” 
fa mi: in dis wei” 
Now and then they saw men standing on boxes, 
nan and den dei so: men stcendirj on baksiz. 
surround = be on 
all sides of 
speaking, surrounded by people who were listening to 
spi:kifj, sa'raundid bai pi: pi hu: we: lisniy ta 
them. Some of these men said such funny things that 
dam. SAin av di:z men sed SAtj fAni pirjz dat 
everybody laughed. Many people seemed to have come 
evribadi la:ft. meni pi:pi sirmd ta hav kxm 
to the street market, not in order to buy anything, but 
ta da stri:t ma:kit, rut in a:da ta bai enipirj, bat 
only in order to enjoy themselves. When the sellers 
ounli in a:da tu in'd^ai dam'selvs. hwen da selaz 
saw a possible customer, four or five of them would at 
sa: a pasabl kwstama , fa:r a faiv av dam wad at 
The Forty-Sixth (46th) Chapter. 
once surround him so that it was difficult for him to 
wans saraund him sou dat it ivaz difikalt fa him to 
get away. 
get d'wei. 
Storm suddenly saw a strange sight, one of the strangest 
stj:m SAcfnli sj : a streind 3 suit, wah dv do streind ^ist 
sights he had ever seen, a monkey sitting on a man’s 
suits hi: hdd eva si:n, a niAyki sitiy on 3 manz 
shoulder with the man’s hat in its hand. The man was 
foulda zoid da manz hat in its hand. da man waz 
not able to see, for he was blind. On his coat was a 
not cihl td si:, fa hi: waz hlaind. an hiz kout waz a 
piece of paper with the w^ord ‘blind’, so that people 
pi:s av pci pa wid da wa:d c blciind\ sou dat pi: pi 
might know that he could not see. The monkey was 
wait non dat hi: kud not si:. da m.vjki waz 
holding out the blind man’s hat, and many people put 
houldiy out da blciind mans hat , and merii >pi:pl put.. 
money into it. It seemed to like its work, and some- 
niAni intu it. it si:md ta laik its wa:k, and sahi- 
times it jumped from one shoulder of the man to the 
taimz it d^Ampt fram wau fouldar av da man ta di 
slwulder 
other. 
Ada. 
A little later, they discovered a man selling knives 
a litl leita, dei dis'kAvad a man seliy naivz 
which were so cheap that Storm wanted to buy one; 
hwitf wa: sou tfi:p dat sta:m ivantid ta luii zo\n: 
but Marshall told him that if he wanted a sharp knife, 
bat ina:fdl tould him ddt if hi: wontid a fa:p naif. 
that is, a knife that is really able to cut, he would 
dcet iz, a naif ddt iz riali ei-bl ta ) kAt, hi: wad 
have to go somewhere else for it, as it was impossible 
hav td gou SAmhwrar els far it, az it waz im'pasabl 
to get a sharp knife very cheap. 
ta get a fa:p naif veri tfi:p. 
Marshall suddenly noticed that Storm was not there, 
ma:fal SAdnli noutist dat sta:m waz not dr a, 
and he could not see him anywhere. Five minutes 
and hi: kud nat si: him enihwra. fair minits 
hard = difficult 
map 
passed, and then Storm appeared again, returning round 
pa:st, and den sta:m a'pi ad a'gein , nta.nij round 
the corner of a side street with a small parcel in his 
da kj.nar av a said stri:t wid a situ:l pa:si in hiz 
hand. “It is always hard for me to find my way about 
hand, “it iz o:lwaz ha:d fa mi: ta faind mai wei a'baut 
the streets of London, so when I saw a man selling maps 
da stri.ts av l And an, sou hwen ai so: a man seliy maps 
of London which were both large and cheap, I bought 
av l And an Jnvitf wa: boup la:d$ and tfi:p, ai ba:t 
one,” Storm explained. “I was really very glad,” said 
wah” stj:m iks'pleind. “ai waz riali veri glad/ 3 sed 
Marshall, “to see you appear once more. Although the 
ma:fal, “ta si: ju: a'pia zvahs mo:. a:l'dou da 
parcel you have in your hand is very small, there seems 
pa: si ju: hccv in jj: hand iz veri snn:l, dr a si:mz 
The Forty-Sixth (46th) Chapter. 
to be more in it than a map of London.” “Perhaps,” 
ts hi: ms:r in it dsn s mcep sv L\ndsn” “ps'hceps” 
said Storm, “I bought one or two other things at the 
sed stj.m, “ai bs:t waii s tu: Ads piijz st ds 
same time; who knows?” “I won’t ask you to tell me 
seim taiw: hu: nouz?” “ai wount a:sk jn: ts tel mi: 
what you have bought, of course. I only hope that you’ll 
Iiii'jt jit: hsv ho:t . sv ko:s. ai ounli houp dst ju:l 
not be sorry later on and regret that you bought it.” 
not bi: ssri leitsr jn snd ri'gret dst jn: bs:t it” 
“What I have bought,” Storm replied, “is both of good 
“hwst ai hsv bs:t” stj:m ri'plaid, “iz boup sv gud 
quality and cheap, so that I’m quite sure that I shan’t 
kiv.diti snd tfi:p, son dst aim kzvait fns dst ai fa:nt 
regret it. Remember, Marshall,” he said, laughing, 
ri'gret it. ri'membs , ma:jsl” hi: sed, la:fiy , 
“that the money came out of my pocket and not yours.” 
“dst ds iiiAni keim ant sv trial pskit snd not jo:z” 
“It is almost too hot to-day,” said Marshall, “to enter 
“it iz s:lmoust tu: hst ts'dei ” sed ma:jsl, “tu entsr 
into a discussion. I think it must be 90° (degrees) 
intu s dis'kAfsn. ai piyk it mASt bi: nainti di'gri:z 
in the shade, so it is no wonder if we feel a little hot 
in ds jeid, sou it iz non WAndsr if wi: fi:l s litl list 
here in the sun. I propose that we cross the street to 
hisr in ds sau. ai prs'pouz dst ivi: krss ds stri:t ts 
get into the shade on the other side of the street.” 
get ints ds Jeid .in di Ads said sv ds str'r.t” 
shan’t = shall 
not 
ninety degrees 
Fahrenheit 
32.2° (thirty-two 
point two degrees) 
Celsius [sclsijs] 
s/uidr 
WORDS: 
market 
wide 
crowd 
rest (verb) 
rest 
recognize 
seller 
fellow-seller 
cry 
basket 
hold 
held 
worth 
quality 
rub 
increase 
discovery 
discover 
prepare 
anybody 
beforehand 
believe 
surround 
sight 
shoulder 
blind 
sharp 
appear 
parcel 
map 
EXERCISE A. 
When Marshall and Storm came to the East End, Storm 
it was possible to buy goods in the streets of London 
their trip beforehand. 
The Forty-Sixth (46th) Chapter. 
EXERCISE B. 
Answer these questions with full sentences: 
What do you do before you go to your work? .. . What 
your present work? .. . Are you interested in it, or 
would you like to try some other work? . .. Are you 
more busy in the morning or in the afternoon? . .. How 
EXERCISE C. GRAMMAR. 
Some words tell us how, when, or where something is 
done. Examples: slowly, easily, automatically, kindly, 
now, then, already, here, there. These words are called 
adverbs \(cdva:bz\. 
The adverbs that tell us how something is done are 
usually made by adding -ly to an adjective. Examples: 
He walked quickly to the door (quick + ly). They __ plug 
lived happily for many years (happy 4- ly). She was 
sitting comfortably in a big chair (comfortable + ly). 
Notice that ‘y’ at the end of an adjective is changed 
into ‘i’ before -ly is added, and that -le at the end of 
that is, in what way or manner \ni(cnd\ something is 
done, are called adverbs of manner. 
regret 
degree 
shade 
of course 
as well 
hard 
plus 
poor 
The adverbs that tell us when or how often something 
takes place, are called adverbs of time. Now, then, 
already, soon, yesterday, to-day, to-morrow, are adverbs 
that tell us when something is done. Often, never, 
usually, always, sometimes, are some adverbs that say 
how often something takes place. Examples: It often 
rains in England. He is never at home. 
Adverbs that tell us where something takes place are, 
for instance, somewhere, there, here, far, away. They 
are usually called adverbs of place. 
The adverbs we have spoken of, so far, are adverbs 
that are used with verbs. You will also find some that 
are used with adjectives or with other adverbs to tell 
us how much . Here are some examples of adverbs 
used with adjectives: I am not quite ready. You are 
very naughty children. That is good enough for me. 
The coat is too big. This is not so difficult. And here 
are some examples of adverbs used with other adverbs: 
He spoke quite openly of what he had done. They 
walked very slowly. You don’t come here often enough. 
It cannot be done too well (‘well’ is an adverb). We 
are not working so hard now (‘hard’ is an adverb here). 
These adverbs are called adverbs of degree. 
Many adverbs may be used for making comparisons. 
When used in that way, ‘more’ and ‘most’ are put be¬ 
fore the adverbs, for instance: He talked more quietly 
than ever before. Who ran most quickly? 
Questions: 
Can you find examples of the different sorts of adverbs 
