Chapter Forty-Seven (47). 
The Forty-Seventh (47th) Chapter. 
A BUSY SUNDAY 
Marshall explained to Storm that the so-called East 
ma:fal iks'pleind ta sto:m dat da souk d: Id i:st 
End, where they were now, is part of East London. 
end, hwed dei wa: nau, iz pa:t av i:st lAnddn. 
“Most of the people in the East End are very poor,” 
“moast av da pi:pl in di i:st end a: veri pua ” 
he said, “and you will often find two families living 
hi: sed, “and ju: mil a:fn faind tu: fcemiliz livitj 
together in the same flat or in a one-family house. 
ta'gedar in da seim fleet o:r in a WAnfeemili haus. 
These people live under very bad conditions, but the 
di:z pi:pl liv Anda veri heed kandifanz, hat da 
poor in the large cities all over the world live under 
pua in da la:d 3 sitiz o:l ouva da zva:ld liv Anda 
conditions just as bad, I think.” 
kan'difanz d$Ast az heed, ai piyk” 
To Storm’s question if there were any stores in this 
ta sto:mz kwestfan if dea wa:r eni sta:z in dis 
part of the town, Marshall answered, “You will not 
pa:t av da taun , ma:f&l a:nsad, “ju: mil nat 
find many stores in the East End; most of the shops 
faind meni sta:z in di i:st end; moust av da fops 
here are rather small. You will notice that fruit is 
hia a: ra:da sma.i. ju: mil noutis dat fru:t iz 
store = a very 
large shop, selling 
all kinds of goods 
461 
Chapter Forty-Seven (47). 
cal 
on a chain = at 
the end of a chain 
c/iai/i 
cheap in the East End. I must remember to buy some 
tfi:p in di i:st end. ai mast ri'incwba ta bai som 
fruit for my mother, because the price here is much 
fru:t fa mat niAdo. bi'baz da prais hio is MAtf 
lower than in our suburb.” 
Iona dan in ana s.\ba:b 
After having bought the fruit, Marshall said that there 
a:fta hcevirj ba:t da frict, mciijal sed dot dfa 
were two or three streets that he wished to show Storm. 
wo: tu: a pri: stri.ts dat hi: wijt ta foil sta:m. 
“They sell nothing but cats, dogs, birds, and other 
“dei scl n.\piy bat beets, dags, ba:dz, and \da 
domestic animals in those streets. We English love 
damestik ecnimalz in doits stri.ts. wi: iyylif Iav 
domestic animals very much, and every Sunday morning 
da'mestik ecnimalz veri in.\tj, and cvri s.xndi ma :ni\) 
large numbers of cats, dogs, and birds are sold in the 
la:d$ n.\mbaz av beets, days, and ba.dz a: sou Id in di 
East End.” 
i:st end 
Before long they reached one of the streets that Mar- 
bi'fa: laij dei ri.tft 20An av da stri.ts dat ma:- 
shall had mentioned, and they saw that every third or 
Jal had men jand, and dei sa: dat cvri pa:d a 
fourth person had bought a dog and had it on a chain. 
• /j; / > pa.sn had bait a dag and heed it an a tfein. 
Storm. k T am always sorry to see a man walking with 
sta.m. ui am a:lwaz sari ta si: a mcen waibiij wid 
462 
The Forty-Seventh (47th) Chapter. 
his dog on a chain, but of course it is necessary for a 
hiz dag an a tfein, bat av ha:. s' if iz nesisari far a 
man who has just bought a dog to have it on a chain 
mcen hu: haz d;j.\st ba:t a dag ta hcev it an a tfein 
at first every time he walks out with it, until he is 
at fa:st evri taun hi: wa:ks out wid it, Afi'til hi: iz 
sure that the dog knows its new home and will not 
fua dat da dag nous its nju: ho inn and wil fiat 
run away. After that he may let it run loose when 
r.\n awei. a:fta dcct hi: tnei let it yah lies hwen 
he takes it out.’' Marshall: “I quite agree with you, 
hi: teihs it out.” nur.fal: “ai hzvait a'gri: wid jit:. 
but it is not always possible. In this busy part of the 
bat it iz nat a:lzvaz pasabl. in dis bizi pcr.t av da 
town, for example, you cannot let the dogs run loose, 
taun, far ig'zu: in pi, ju: keen at let da dagz yah lu:s, 
for they would very quickly run into the middle of 
fa dei lead veri hzvikli yah inta da in id l av 
the street and, perhaps, get under a car or get run over, 
da stri:t and, pa'hceps, get Afidar a ha: a: get yah ouva. 
as we say In several of the suburbs, however, it is 
az zvi: sei. in sevral av da SAba:bz, hau'ez’a, it iz 
possible to let them go loose. Speaking of dogs, I don’t 
pasabl ta let dam gOu lu:s. spi:hiy av dagz. ai daunt 
like the way some kinds of dogs have part of their tails 
laih da wei saih haindz av dagz hcev pa:t av dr a teilz 
cut off just because it is thought beautiful by some of 
kwt a:f d$Ast bi'haz it iz fa:t bju.taful bai saypi av 
463 
Chapter Forty-Seven (47). 
He smells, 
he smelt, 
he has smelt 
[smelz, smelt, 
smelt]. 
the so-called friends of dogs." Storm: “No, I also 
da souka:ld frcndz av dags” sta:m: u non, ai a:lsou 
prefer them with their tails.” 
pri'fa: dam zvib (ha tcilz .” 
The two friends now began walking along the street, 
da tu: frcndz nan bi'gccn zva:kiy a'lay da stri:t. 
and soon their noses told them what was sold there, 
and sum bra nouziz tonld dam Ivwat zvaz sonld bra. 
for they could smell the animals. Storm said that he 
fa dci had smcl di (cnimalz. sta:m scd bat hi: 
had smelt something like it when he went with his 
had smelt sAmpiy laik it hzven hi: zvent zvib hiz 
friends to the Zoo. Seeing some very beautiful birds 
frcndz ta da zu:. siriy sam veri bju:taful ba:dz 
and cats in a shop, they went inside to have a better 
and kects in a jap , dci zvent in 1 said ta Inez' a beta 
look at them. They spent several minutes there playing 
Ink at dam. dci spent scvral minits bra plciiy 
with a small cat, which jumped up on Storm’s shoulder 
zvib a sma:l kcct, hzvitf d^Ampt \p an sta. mz foulda 
as soon as they entered the shop, but at last Marshall 
az sum az dci cut ad da jap, bat at hi:st ma:fal 
said, “We must leave now! There’s still a lot more on 
scd, “zvi: mast li:v nan! daz stil a lat ma:r an 
our programme for to-day, so we had better move on. 
ana prougreem fa ta'dci, sou zvi: had beta mn:v an. 
My real purpose in taking you out to-day was to show 
nwi rial pa:pas in teikiy ju: ant ta'dci zvaz ta fou 
464 
The Forty-Seventh (47th) Chapter. 
you the many different things we do on Sundays, and 
ju: da meni difrant piyz wi: du: an sAndiz, and 
as it's my purpose to get through all of our programme 
az its mai pa:pas ta get pru: a:l av aua prougrcem 
before we return, we’ll now go on to one of the shops 
bi'fa: wi: ri'ta.n, wi:l nau gou an ta WAn av da japs 
that sell beer and other strong drinks. A shop of this 
dat sel biar and Ada stray driyks. a Jap av dis 
kind is called a public house, or a pub for short, and 
kaind iz ka:ld a pAblik haus, a:r a pAb fa ja:t, and 
in England we have so many of them that we say that 
in iygland wi: hcev sou meni av dam dat wi: set dat 
there is a pub on every street corner.” 
daz a pAb an evri sfri:t ka:na” 
In less than a minute they reached a public house. 
in les dan a minit dei ri:tft a pAblik haus. 
Storm was surprised to find that the shop was so full 
sta:m waz sa'praizd ta faind dat da jap waz sou ful 
of people drinking that many had to stand outside with 
av pi:pi driykiy dat meni heed ta stcend aut'said wid 
the glasses in their hands. Storm was all the more 
da gla:siz in dea hcendz. sta:m waz a:l da ma: 
surprised, because he had always thought that public 
sa'praizd, bi'kaz hi: had a:lwaz pa:t dat pAblik 
houses in England were closed on Sundays. 
hauziz in iygland we: klouzd an SAndiz. 
A man that had had a little too much to drink, dropped 
a mcen dat had had a litl tu: mAtj ta driyk, dr apt 
all the more = 
so much more 
465 
Chapter Forty-Seven (47). 
his glass, which was at once smashed to pieces. Another 
hiz gla:s, hwitf zvaz at w.\ns smaft ta pi:siz. a'nxda 
man, who had had far too much to drink, seemed to 
man, hu: had had fa: tu: vnAtj ta drhjk, si:md ta 
like the noise, for he at once picked up his glass and 
laik da noiz, fa hi: at zv.\ns pikt .\p hiz gla:s and 
smashed it, too. “I am afraid that you are getting one 
smaft it, tu:. “ai am a'freid dat ju: a: getiy w\n 
surprise after another,” Marshall said; “but you are 
sa'praiz a.ftar a'tiAda” ma:fal sed; <c bat ju: a: 
really seeing the East End on a Sunday morning.” 
rtali si.iy di i:st. end on a sAtidi mo'.nig” 
He breaks, 
he broke, 
he has broken 
[breiks, brouk, 
broukn]. 
It was very difficult for the man to stand on his feet. 
it zvaz veri difikalt fa da wan ta stand on hiz fi:t. 
Some of his friends tried to support him by holding his 
saw av hiz frendz traid ta sa'po:t hint boi houldiy hiz 
arms, but although they supported him as well as they 
a:mz, bat o.l'dou dei sa'po.tid him az wel az dei 
could, he suddenly fell to the ground. “If that is a 
kud\ hi: sAdnli fel ta da ground. “if dat iz a 
typical picture of an English public house, I’m sure 
tipikal pikt far av an igglif pAblik haus, aim fua 
that people break many glasses in this way,” said 
dat pi: pi breik meni gla.siz in dis wei,” sed 
Storm. “You are right,” Marshall replied, “thousands 
sto:m. “ju: a: rait” ma:fal ri' plaid, “pauzandz 
of glasses must get broken every year. But this is not 
ov gla:siz mast get broukn evri jia. bat dis iz not 
466 
The Forty-Seventh (47th) Chapter. 
a typical English pub; at least it is only typical of some 
a tipikdl iyglif pAb; dt li:st it iz ounli tipikdl dv saw 
pubs in the East End. But now, I think, we will leave 
pAbz in di i:st end. bat nau, ai piyk, ‘ zvi: wil li:v 
the East End, not because we’ve seen all that is to be 
di i:st end, njt bi'kaz 7vi:v si:n j:I Sat iz td bi: 
seen, but because our time is limited. I must say, Storm, 
si:n, l>3t bi'kaz and taim iz limitid. ai in.\st sei, stj:m, 
that I find the East End one of the most interesting 
(hi ai faind di i:st end 7 vau dv da moust intristiy 
parts of London.” 
pa :ts 37> l And an.” 
u Yes, that may be so, but you would not like to exchange 
'‘jrs. dcct mci bi: sou. bat ju: 7vad nat laik tu iks'tfeind^ 
your own suburb for this place, would you? You would 
jo:r oun SAba:b fa dis pleis, u'nd ju:? ju: 7Vdd 
not exchange your house for a house in the East End 
tut iks'tfcind 3 jj: Jums far 3 bans in di i:st end 
with another family living in it. But you said that our 
wid d'n\da fcemili liviy in it. bat. ju: sed dat ana 
time was limited as our programme was so long. What 
taim 7vaz limitid az ana prougrenn 7caz sou lay. hwat 
are we going to do now?” Marshall replied, looking at 
a: 7vi: gouiy ta du: nan?” ma:fal ri'plaid, lukiy at 
his watch, that it was an hour or two past lunch-time, 
biz 7oatf, dat it waz an auar a tu: pa:st l.\njtaini, 
and that before he could think of doing anything else, 
and dat bi'fa: hi: had piyh av du:iy enipiy cls. 
467 
Chapter Forty-Seven (47). 
they must have some lunch and a little rest, and later 
dei mast hcev sam Unf and a litl rest, and leita 
he would take Storm to church. “Without a visit to 
hi: wad teik sta:rn ta tja:tj. <c wid'aut a vizit tu 
a church,” he told Storm, “I can’t give you a really 
a tja.tf” hi: tould sta:m, “ai ka:nt giv ju: a riali 
typical picture of a Sunday in London. Before the first 
tipikal piktfar av a SAtidi in Undan. bi'fa: da fa:st 
world war the English were a church-going nation, and 
wa:ld wa: di ifjglij wa:r a tfa.tfgoniy neifan, and 
they still are, even if, perhaps, fewer people go to church 
dei stil a:, i:van if, pa'hceps, fju:a pi:pi gou ta tja:tj 
now. Most of those who go to church on Sundays, go 
nau. moust av douz hu: gou ta tja:tj an SAndiz, gou 
because they really want to and feel that they could 
bikaz dei riali want tu and fi:l dat dei lend 
not do without it, but there are, of course, some who 
nat du: wid'aut it, bat dear a:, av ka:s, savi hu: 
proper = right 
only go because they think it the proper thing to do. 
ounli gou bi'kaz dei pirjk it da prapa piy tadu:. 
Their parents and grandparents went to church, and 
dea pear ants and greendpearants went ta tfa:tf, and 
so they go, too.” 
sou dei gou, tu:” 
Storm: “Yes, in my country it is almost the same. Many 
sta:m: “jes, in mai k\ntri it iz a.'lnwust da seini. meni 
people, for example, go to church only on the twenty- 
pi:pl, far ig'za:mpl, gou ta tfa:tf ounli an da twenti- 
468 
The Forty-Seventh (47th) Chapter. 
fourth or the twenty-fifth of December, because they 
'fo:p o: dd twenti'fifp dv di'sembd, bi'kjz dei 
think it the proper thing to do, or, perhaps, because 
pivjk it dd prjpd pig td du:, o:, pd'hccps, bi'kjz 
they have always done so; -but there are, of course, 
dei hdv j.lwdz d\n sou; bdt dedr a:, dv kj:s, 
also a great many people who go to church every Sunday 
j. lsou d greit metii pi:pi hu: you td tfd:tf evri SAudi 
because they really want to.” 
bi'kdz dei ridli wont tu” 
It took the two friends more time to get through their 
it tuk dd tu: frendz du: tairn td get pru: ded 
lunch than they had expected. They spent more than 
/.a;?/ ddn dei hdd ikspektid. dei spent mo: ddn 
two hours eating and reading the Sunday papers. “We 
tu: audz i:tiy diid ri.diy dd s\ndi peipdz. “u'i: 
are a little late now,” Marshall said. “There is a service 
a:r d litl leit nau,” ma:jdl sed. (C ddz d sd:vis 
in a church a quarter of an hour’s walk from here, so 
in d tfd:tf d kwo:tdr dv dn audz u'D.k frdm hid, sou 
we must hurry.” When they reached the church, the 
ivi: mdst liAri.” hwen dei ri:tft dd tfd.'tf, dd 
service had already begun, and the clergyman had 
sd:vis hdd j.Vredi bi'gAn, dnd dd kh:dymdn hdd 
just appeared. Before the clergyman began to speak, 
d^Ast d'pidd. bi'fd: dd kld:d^imdn bi'gcrn td spi: k\ 
however, Marshall found time to say to Storm in a very 
hau'ei’d, ma:fdl found taiin td sei td sto:m in o vcrx 
469 
Chapter Forty-Seven (47). 
low voice: “Listen carefully, now! You will hear many 
lou vais: “lisn keafuli , nau! ju: wil hid meni 
strange old expressions that are not in use any more, 
streind 3 onld iks'prefdnz ddt a: nat in ju:s eni rna:, 
but a clergyman usually speaks so slowly in church 
bdt d kld:d%imdn ju:$udli spi:ks sou slouli in tfd:tj 
and in such a loud voice, that I have no doubt you will 
dnd in s.\tj d laud vais, ddt ai hdv non daut ju: wil 
be able to hear and find out the meaning of most of 
bi: eibl td hid dnd faind aut dd mi:niy dv rnoust dv 
the words and expressions. You will recognize the 
dd wd:ds dnd iks'prefdnz. ju: toil rekdgnaiz dd 
matter he is speaking about, of course, and that will 
mcetd hi: iz spi:kiy d'baut , dv kj:s , dnd dcct wil 
help, too.” The clergyman had a strong voice, that 
help, tu:. 3) dd kh:dymdn herd d stray vais, ddt 
sounded rather pleasant, and it was quite an experience 
soundid^ ra:da pleznt, dnd it zvaz kzvait dn iks'pidridns 
for Storm to hear the many old English words and 
fd sta:m td hid dd meni ould iyylif zvdulz dnd 
expressions which sounded very strange and also very 
iks'prejdnz Jnvitj sound-id veri streind 3 dnd j:lsou veri 
beautiful to his ears, as he told Marshall after the 
bju.tdful td hiz idz, dz hi: tould ma:fdl a:ftd dd 
service was over. 
Sd'.vis ZOdZ OltZ'd. 
470 
Shortly after seven they left the church and went to 
fa:tli a:ftd sevn dei left do tfo:tf and zvent tu 
The Forty-Seventh (47th) Chapter. 
a restaurant for a cup of tea. “We’ve had a very busy 
a restar a :y far a k\p av ti:. “wi:v heed a veri bizi 
day,” said Storm, “and I think that your programme 
dei,” sed stj:m, “and ai piyk dat jj: prougrcem 
could hardly have been better.” “Do you think, per- 
kad hu:dli hav bi:n beta” “du: ju: piyk, pa- 
haps,” Marshall asked, “that our programme is finished 
'keeps,” mcr.fal a:skt, “dat ana prougrcem iz f ini ft 
already? Just as soon as we’ve had enough tea and 
a :/' red if d$ASt az su:n az wi:v heed i'nxf ti: and 
bread and butter, we will go and see a good film.” 
bred and b.\ta, wi: wil gou and si: a gud film” 
“See a good film!” said Storm in great surprise; “you 
“si: a gud film!” sed sta:m in greit sa'praiz: “ju: 
must have forgotten that the cinemas are closed to-day.” 
mast hav fa'gain dat da sinimaz a: klouzd ta'dei” 
“That is again the strange idea that foreigners have of 
“deet iz a'gcin da streind 3 ai'dia dat farinaz hcev av 
England. There are in all far more than 200 
iygland. dear in a:l fa: ma: dan tit: h\ndrad 
towns in England, in which the cinemas are open on 
taunz in iy gland, in hwitf da sinimaz a:r oupan an 
Sundays.” 
SAndiz” 
They went to a cinema in Leicester Square, and before 
dei went tu a sinima in lest a skwca, and bi'fa: 
going in, stood for a time on one of the four sides of 
gouiy in, stud far a taim an w\n av da fa: saidz av 
square 
471 
Chapter Forty-Seven (47). 
the square, looking at the great number of very bright 
da skwrd, lukiij at da yreit iwmbar av vcri brait 
lights outside most of the buildings. The lights were 
laits 'aitt'said moust av da bildiyz. da la its wa: 
so bright that it was almost like daylight. They went 
sou brait dat it zvaz a:lmoust laik deilait. dci went 
inside the cinema, which was so comfortable that it 
'in'said da sinima, hzvitj zoaz sou kAinfatabl dat it 
was almost like a palace. The prices were rather high, 
waz j'.lmoust laik a perils, da praisiz wa: ra:da hai , 
but Marshall told Storm that they must pay for all the 
bat ma:fal tould sta:m dat dci mast pci far a:l da 
comforts. “If you want to have all modern comforts, 
k\mfats. “if ju: want ta heev a:l nudan kxmfats, 
you’ll usually find that you have to pay for them in 
ju:l ju'.yidli faind dat ju: heev ta pel fa: dam in 
some way or other.” 
saw, wei a:r Ada.” 
They saw a war film, and when they left the cinema, 
dei sa: a wa: film, and hwen dei left da sinima, 
they agreed that they did not wish to see any more 
dei a'gri:d dat dei did nat wif ta si: eni ma: 
war films for a long time to come. It was about an 
zva: filmz far a lay taim ta kAm. it zvaz a'baut an 
Englishman who had been taken by the Germans, but 
iijglifman hit: had bi:n teikn bai da d^a.rnanz, bat 
after a lot of trouble he had got away from them and 
a:ftar a lat av tr\bl hi: had gat a'zvei fratn dam and 
472 
The Forty-Seventh (47th) Chapter. 
escaped to Sweden, where he received a shock on 
is'keipt ta sun: (in, Invea hi: ri'si:vd a jjk m 
hearing that both his parents were dead, and that his 
hiariy dat boitj) his pear ants wa: (led, and dat his 
wife had run away with another man. Marshall: “I have 
waif had rxn a'wci wid a'nAda mcen. ma:fal: “ai iuev 
a brother who also escaped from Germany during the 
a hr\da hu: a.lsou is'keipt fram d^a.mani djuariy da 
war; but I am glad to say that nothing unpleasant had 
wa:: bat ai am gUcd ta sci dat n.xpiy xn'plesnt had 
taken place in his family which might give him a shock 
teikn pleis in his f(cmili hwitf wait giv him a jak 
when he got back.’* 
hwen hi: gat luck." 
When they got home that evening, Storm thanked his 
hwen dei gat Iwum dcct i.vniy . sta.in pccykt his 
guide and said, “I’m sure this has been the most 
gaid and sed . “aim Jua dis has bi:n da monst 
interesting Sunday I have spent for a long time, full 
intristiy sxndi ai hav spent far a lay taint, fid 
of surprises from morning till night.” 
av sa'praisis frani ma.niy til twit ." 
Marshall’s parents had gone to bed, but as he and Storm 
ma:jals pear ants had gan ta bed, bat ecs hi: and sta:m 
were both hungry after their long and tiring day, they 
wa: boup liAtjgri a:fta dca lay and taiariy dei, dei 
went into the kitchen, where they found some cold 
went inta da kit fin, hive a dei found saw kould 
473 
Chapter Forty-Seven (47). 
supper which Mrs. Marshall had left for them. They 
SApd hwitj misis ma:fal had left fa: dam. dei 
made themselves some tea to drink with their supper. 
meid dam'selvz sam ti: ta driyk zvid dea s.\pa. 
WORDS: 
condition 
store 
cat 
domestic 
loose 
chain 
smell 
smelt 
tail 
programme 
purpose 
public house 
pub 
smash 
support 
break 
broke 
broken 
limited 
proper 
service 
clergyman 
expression 
sound (verb) 
square 
EXERCISE A. 
Most people in the East End live under bad —. In the 
East End fruit is sold cheap, and the prices arc — than 
in the suburbs. A very large shop, selling all kinds of 
goods, is called a —. In the East End dogs and other — 
animals are sold in the streets. It is not allowed to let 
a dog go —, but it is taken away on a —. The friends 
could — that animals were sold in these streets. Some 
kinds of dogs have part of their — cut off. Their — for 
the day was very long, because it was Marshall’s — to 
show Storm as much as possible. In a — they saw a 
man — his glass to pieces. It was difficult for him to 
stand, and his friends had to — him. Storm thought 
that many glasses were — in this way. They soon had 
to leave the East End. Many Englishmen find it the — 
thing to go to church and listen to a — on Sundays. 
Storm was able to understand most of the words and 
— used by the clergyman. The clergyman’s voice — 
pleasant. The friends went to a cinema in Leicester — 
to see a —. The light outside the building was almost 
as — as —, and inside there were all modern —. The 
film was about an Englishman who — from Germany 
to Sweden, where he received a — when hearing that 
his parents were dead, and that his wife had left him. 
474 
The Forty-Seventh (47th) Chapter. 
EXERCISE B. 
In chapter 44, Exercise D, you found a letter from 
Storm to his friend Wood. Please answer this letter as 
if you were Wood, in such a way that you use all the 
words in the following list: 
than — letter — sister — receive — send — require — 
Brown — office — evening — discussion — pleasant — 
photograph — visit — London. 
You will have to make up some sort of story in which 
these words appear. This will give you practice in ex¬ 
pressing yourself in English. 
EXERCISE C. GRAMMAR. 
We have some words which we call pronouns \prou- 
nciunz J. Pronouns are words like I, you, his, this, which, 
somebody. Pronouns may be put instead of nouns. 
Here are some examples: The man gave the boy an 
apple, and he ate it at once. In the sentence ‘and he 
ate it at once’ we see that ‘he’ is used instead of ‘boy 5 
and ‘it 5 instead of ‘apple 5 . In the sentence ‘John took 
the books and put them into his bag 5 , ‘them 5 is used 
instead of ‘books 5 , and ‘his 5 is used instead of ‘John's 5 . 
There are different kinds of pronouns. The words: 
I, you, he, she, it, me, you, him, her, it, we, you, they, 
us, you, them, we call the personal \pa:snl\ pronouns, 
because they are mostly used instead of persons. Ex¬ 
amples: John has a dog, which he likes very much. 
film 
bright 
daylight 
comfort 
escape 
shock 
unpleasant 
475 
Chapter Forty-Seven (47). 
(‘He’ is used instead of ‘John*.) The boys ran after 
the cat, until they got it. (‘They’ is used instead of 
‘boys’, and ‘it’ instead of ‘cat’.) 
We have also some pronouns called possessive \pa { zesiv\ 
pronouns; there are two kinds of possessive pronouns: 
firstly, my, your, his, her, its, our, your, their; secondly, 
mine, yours, his, hers, its, ours, yours, theirs. You will 
notice that the words in the second list have added 
an s, except ‘my’, which becomes ‘mine’, and ‘his’ and 
‘its’, which have an s already. 
The pronouns first mentioned are used with a noun, 
and the pronouns last mentioned are used when no 
noun follows. In the sentence ‘I showed him my house’, 
‘my’ is used with the noun ‘house’, but in the sentence 
‘I have shown him mine’, no noun follows, so the word 
‘mine’ is used instead of ‘my’. Here are some other 
examples: This is her hat; where is yours? Your garden 
is small, ours is big. It is her book — no, it is his. It is 
his ball — no, it is hers. 
Questions: 
Can you give some examples of pronouns? . . . What 
different sorts of pronouns do you know? . . . How are 
pronouns used? ... In what way are the two kinds of 
possessive pronouns different? . . . Please write a few 
sentences where a possessive pronoun is used together 
with a noun, and some where a possessive pronoun is 
used without a noun. . . . 
476 
