Chapter Forty-Eight (48). 
The Forty-Eighth (48th) Chapter. 
ENGLISH NEWSPAPERS 
Storm: “While I know a great deal about the things 
sta:m: “hwail ai nou a greit di:l a 1 bant da piyz 
that happen in my own country, I am afraid that I don’t 
dat hcepn in mai oun k\ntri, ai aw a'freid dat ai dount 
know very much about events that happen in other 
nou vcri niAtf a'bant i vents dat hcepn in Ada 
countries, so I think that in the future I had better read 
IcAntriz, sou ai piyk dat in da fju.tfa ai had beta ri:d 
an English newspaper every day. In that way I should 
an iyglif nju.speipa evri dei. in dcet wei ai fad 
also get to know more about what the English think 
a.lsou get ta nou ma:r a'baut hwat di iyglif piyk 
about things; I should learn the opinions of the English. 
a'baut piyz; ai fad la:n di a'pinjanz av di iyglif . 
I am sure that one of the best ways to learn the opinions 
ai am fua dat wah av da best wciz ta la:n di a'pinjanz 
of a foreign nation is to read the newspapers of the 
av a farm neifan iz ta ri:d da nju:speipaz av da 
country. Living in England, as I do now, I think I ought 
kAntri. liviy in it/gland. azaidu: nau, ai piyk ai a:t 
to know more about the nation. I think it’s almost my 
ta nou wa:r a'baut da neifan. ai piyk its a.lmoust mai 
duty to learn all that I can about the English. 5 ' 
dju.ti ta la:n a:l dat ai keen a'baut di iyglif 
that happens 
happen = take 
place 
the future = the 
time to come 
He ought, 
[j:t, j:t]. 
duty = the work 
or the things a 
person ought to do 
putting it too 
strongly = making 
too much out of it 
“You don’t really mean what you say, do you?” asked 
“ju: daunt riali wi:n live at ju: sei, du: ju:?” a:skt 
Marshall. “You cannot be serious; you must be saying 
ma.jdl. “ju: kccnat hi: sidrids; ju: mast hi: seiitj 
this just in fun.” “No, not in fun; I am serious all 
dis d'jAst in f a n.” “non, nat in f ah; ai am siarias a:l 
right; I mean just what I say,” replied Storm. “It is 
rait; ai mi:n d^\st hu'jt ai sei” ri'plaid sta:m . “it iz 
very pleasant,” said Marshall, “to hear that you take 
vcri pleznt” sed ma:fal, “ta hia dat ju: teik 
such an interest in us, but I think that you are putting 
SAtj an intrist in as, bat ai pirjk dat ju: a: putiy 
it too strongly when you say that you ought to know 
it tu: strayli hwen ju: sei dat ju: a:t ta non 
all about us, just because you live here for a few 
a:I a'baut as, d^ASt bi'kaz ju: liv hia far a fju: 
months. If I had a chance of living in your country, 
niAnps. if ai heed a tfa:ns av liviy in ja: kAntri, 
I don’t think I should look upon it as my duty to make 
ai daunt piyk ai fad Ink a'pan it az mui dju.ti ta meik 
a study of the people and the conditions under which 
a st Adi av da pi:pl and da kan'difanz And a hzvitf 
they live, although, on the other hand, I might be glad 
dei l iv, a:Vdou, an di Ada hcend, ai mait bi: ylced 
to learn a few things about them. You will find, Storm, 
ta la:n a fju: piyz a'baut dam. ju: wil faind, sta:m, 
that all nations know much more about themselves than 
dat a:l neifanz non m\tf ma:r a'baut dam'selvz dan 
The Forty-Eighth (48th) Chapter. 
about each other. We might say that this is inter- 
d'baut i:tj \da. wi: wait sci ddt dis iz inta- 
national, for it is to be seen in every country. But if 
'nee f anal, far it iz ta bi: si:n in evri k\ntri. bat if 
you do take such a great interest in the English, it 
ju: du: teik s\tj a greit intrist in di iyglif, it 
would be a good idea for you to read an English paper 
wad bi: a gad ai'dia fa ju: ta ri:d an iyglif peipar 
in future, both while you are staying in England and 
in fjictfa, bonp hwail ju: a: steiiy in iygland and 
when you return to your own country.” 
hiven ju: rita:n ta ja:r oun k\ntri. 3} 
Storm: “I have heard the names of quite a number of 
sta:m: “ai hav ha:d da neiniz av kzvait a nAinbar ov 
English papers, but it is hard for me to remember them, 
iyglif peipaz, bat it iz haul fa mi: ta ri'mcwba daw, 
because I have such a bad memory for foreign names.” 
bi'kaz ai Inez’ swtf a bced wewari fa farin neimz . 33 
Marshall: “While working at the office, I have not found 
ma:fal: “hwail wa:kiy at di jfis, ai hav nat faund 
your memory so poor. Fve sometimes been quite sur- 
jj: memari sou pua. aiv SAintaimz bi:n kwait sa- 
prised at the things you can remember. It is always 
'praizd at da piyz ju: kan ri'memba. it iz a:lwaz 
difficult, however, to remember a lot of foreign names.” 
difikalt, hau'eva, ta ri'membar a ht av farin neimz ” 
Storm: “You English seem to read a great number of 
sta:m: “ju: iyglif si:w ta ri:d a greit n\mbar av 
do take (here) = 
really take 
in future = in the 
future 
papers. Many of the men at the office sometimes buy 
peipas . meni av da men at di afis s Amt aims bai 
two or three papers a day. Is that because they're so 
tu: a pri: peipas a dei. is dcet bi'kas dea sou 
interested in the latest news?” 
intristid in da leitist nju:s?” 
on account of = 
because of 
Marshall: “Not always; in most cases it is on account 
ma:fal: “nat a:hvas; in moust keisis it is on a'kaunt 
paje 
of their interest in sport. The evening papers usually 
av dear intrist in spa:t. di i:vnirj peipas ju:^uali 
have several pages, and in most cases only two or three 
hcev sevral peidys, and in moust keisis ounli tu: a pri: 
of the pages have news; on the rest there are reports 
av da peidys hcev nju:s; an da rest dea ri'pa:ts 
of big events in sport. But there is a limit to the 
av big ivents in spa:t. bat das a limit ta da 
number of papers one can comfortably read, so I am 
nAmbar av peipas w\n kan kAinfatabli ri:d, sou ai am 
mot 
sure that the people who buy so many papers on days 
fua dat da pi:pi hu: bai sou meni peipas an dels 
when a horse-race, a bicycle-race, or a big football match 
hwen a ha.sreis , a baisiklreis, a:r a big futba:l mcetj 
takes place, only read a few words on each page. I 
teiks pleis, ounli ri:d a fju: wa:ds an i:tj peidy ai 
care about = feel 
interested in 
don't care much about the many pages of sport, myself; 
dount kea niAtf a'baut da meni peidy s av spa:t, mat self; 
I'm more interested in the rest of the paper. There 
aim ma:r intristuf in da rest av da peipa. das 
The Forty-Eighth (48th) Chapter. 
is one thing particularly that I always read. Perhaps 
wah piy pa'tikjulali dat ai a.lwaz ri:d. pa'haps 
you have already noticed the many letters to the editor 
ju: hav ad'redi noutist da meni letaz ta di edit a 
in our papers? People from all parts of the country 
in aua peipaz? pi:pi frani a:l pa:ts av da kAntri 
write letters to the papers and give their opinions about 
mit letaz ta da peipaz and giv dear a'pinjanz a'haut 
all sorts of things. Some of the letters are quite 
o. 7 sa.ts av piyz. saw av da letaz a: kwait 
interesting, but in most cases, of course, they are very 
intristiy. hat in moust keisiz, av ka:s, dei a: veri 
funny, because the letter-writers don’t know enough 
f.\ni, bi'kaz da letaraitaz dount non i'tiAf 
about the things they write about. However, people 
a'haut da piyz dei rait a'haut. hau'eva , pi:pl 
in England have been doing this for so long that it has 
in iygland hav hi:n du:iy dis fa sou lay dat it haz 
become almost an English institution.” 
hi'kAm a.lmoust an iyglif insti'tju:fan.” 
The newspapers of a country are spoken of as the press, 
da nju:speipaz - av a kAntri a: spoukan av az da pres , 
and Storm now wanted Marshall to give him some 
and sta:m nan wantid ma.fal ta giv him sam 
information about the English press. “You will, perhaps, 
infa'meijan a'haut di iyglif pres, “ju: wil, pa'hceps . 
be able to make a good suggestion as to which paper 
hi: cihl ta meik a gud sa'd^estfan az ta hwitf peipa 
editor = the head 
of a newspaper 
will be the best for me.” “Yes, I could easily do that,” 
wil bi: da best fj: mi:.” “jes, ai kdd i:zili du: dcet,” 
Marshall replied, “but I have a better suggestion to 
ma.jal ri'plaid, “bat ai hcev d beta sa'd^estjan ta 
make. I will first tell you the most important details 
meik. ai wil fa:st tel ju: da moust im x pa:tant di:teilz 
suggest = propose 
about the papers, and then I suggest that you try a few 
a'baut da peipaz, and den ai sa'dyst dat ju: trai a fju: 
of them. In quite a short time you’ll discover which 
av dam. in kwait a fa:t taim ju:l dis'kAva hwitf 
one you can read to best advantage.” 
w\n ju: kan ri:d ta best ad'va:ntid 3 .” 
Storm answered that he would do as Marshall suggested, 
stj'.m a:nsad dat hi: wad du: az ma:fal sa'd^estid, 
and Marshall went on, saying, “You mentioned that 
and ma:jal went an, seiirj, “ju: menfand dat 
you would like to know more about the opinions of 
ju: wad laik ta nou ma:r a'baut di a'pinjanz av 
the English, but, of course, you understand that not all 
di iyglij, bAt, av ka:s, ju: Anda'stcend dat nat a:l 
Englishmen have the same opinion. In Parliament we 
iyglifman hcev da seim a'pinjan. in pa:lamant wi: 
have a very good example of this. Those who are of 
hcev a veri gud ig'za:mpl av dis. douz hu: a:r av 
the same opinion, and have the same programme for 
da seim a'pin j an, and hcev da seim prougrcem fa 
what they want to do for the good of the country, are 
hwat dei want ta du: fa da gud av da kAntri, a: 
The Forty-Eighth (48th) Chapter. 
spoken of as a political party, while what they want 
spoukan av az a pa'litikal pa:ti, hwail hzvat dei zvant 
to do is spoken of as their political programme. 
ta du: iz spoukan av az dr a pa'litikal prougrcem. 
“The most important men of the largest party usually 
“da moust im'pa:tant men av da la.dyst pa:fi ju:$uali 
make up the government of the country; and it is the 
rneik a p da g\z'anmant av da k\ntri; and it iz da 
duty of the government to look after the affairs of the 
dju.ti av da (/.wanwant ta Ink cr.fta di a'feaz av da 
nation. In England we have three large political 
neifan. in iygland z vi: here pri: Ici'd^ pa'litikal 
parties: the Labour Party, the Conservatives, and the 
pn:tiz: da leiba pa:ti, da kan'sa.vativz , and da 
Liberals. All the papers that I shall mention to you, 
libaralz. a:l da peipaz dat ai fal men fan ta ju:, 
give the opinions of one or other of these three large 
giv di a'pinjanz az’ zvaii a:r Ada av di:z pri: lu:d 3 
political parties, although they are not owned by the 
pa'litikal pa.tiz, a:l'don dei a: nat ound bai da 
parties. I will begin with the Daily Telegraph, as I 
pcr.tiz. ai uni hi'gin zmd da deili teligra:f az ai 
have a copy of it in my pocket. Of course, you have 
hcrz• a kapi av it in mai pakit. av ka:s, ju: haz f 
seen it many times before, and you know what it is 
si:n it meni taimz bi'fa:. and ju: non lizvat it iz 
like. It has a circulation of about a million, and is, 
laik. it hcez a sa:kju'leifan az> a'buut a niiljan, and iz. 
affair = matter 
labour = work 
the telegraph is 
used for sending 
telegrams 
that has passed 
as you’ll have seen, a very Conservative paper. Two 
az ju:l hav si:n, a veri kansa:vativ peipd. tu: 
other important Conservative papers are the Daily Mail 
Add im'po:tant kan'sa:vativ peipaz a: da deili meil 
and the Daily Express, the first with a circulation 
and da deili iks'pres . da fa:st void a sa:kju'leifan 
of 2,000,000, and the second with a circulation of 
az' tu: miljan, and da sekand wid a sa:kju'leifan av 
3,800,000.” 
pri: miljan eit liAiidrad pauzand." 
Storm: “I can’t understand that you have not men- 
sto:m: “ai ka:nt Anda'stcend dat ju: hav not men¬ 
tioned The Times. It is almost the only English 
fand da taimz. it iz o.lmoust di ounli iyglij 
paper ever mentioned at home.” Marshall: “The Times 
peipar eva menfand at houm” ma.jal: “da taimz 
has a circulation of about 300,000.” Storm: 
hcez a sa.kju'leijan av a'baut pri: hAndrad pauzand ” sto:m: 
“Has The Times only a circulation of 300,000?” 
“hccz da taimz ounli a sa. kju'leifan av pri: hAndrad pauzand?” 
Marshall: “Most foreigners are inclined to think that 
ma:jal: “moust fjrinaz a:r in'klaind ta piyk dat 
The Times is the paper with the largest circulation. The 
do taimz iz do peipd wid da la:dyst sa:kju'leifan. da 
reason for this is that many times in the past it has given 
ri.zn fa dis iz dot mcni taimz in da pa:st it haz cjivn 
the opinion of the British government, and on account 
di o'pinjon av do hritif cjAvanmant , and on a'kaunt 
The Forty-Eighth (48th) Chapter. 
of this fact it is, of course, one of the most important 
av dis fcekt it iz , av ka:s, zvaii av da moust im'paitant 
papers, even though it is not one of the biggest. The 
peipaz , iivan don it iz nat zvaii av da bigist. da 
biggest Liberal paper is called the News Chronicle with 
bigist libaral pcipar iz lea:Id dd njui2 kranikl zvid 
a circulation of 1,750,000. 
a saikju'leifan av zvaii miljan sevn JiAndrad and fifti pauzand. 
Then I must mention the Labour paper, called the 
den ai mast men fan da leiba peipa , kaild da 
Daily Herald, a paper with a circulation of over 
deili herald , a peipa zvid a saikju'leifan av ouva 
2,250,000. In 1918 
tu: miljan tu: h And rad and fifti pauzand. in nainti:n eiti:n 
it was a small paper with a circulation of only 
it zvaz a small peipa zvid a saikju'leifan av ounli 
100,000, but its growth has been so rapid 
WAn JiAtidrad pauzand, bat its group Jiaz him sou rccpid 
that already in 1939 its circulation had in- 
dat aiVredi in naintim paiti'nain its saikju'leifan had in¬ 
creased to twenty times as much.” 
'kriist ta tzventi taimz az niAtf 
a What a growth!” said Storm; “I have heard of papers 
“hzvat a group!” sed staun; ({ ai haz• ha id av peipaz 
growing quickly, but never of such a rapid growth as 
grouifj kzvikii, bat nevar av s\tf a rcepid group az 
that.” “In your place,” Marshall continued, “I should 
dcet” “in jo: pleis” maifal kantinjmd, “ai fad 
chronicle = report 
herald = one who 
tells news 
buy a copy of each of these different papers. It is best 
bdi o kopi ov i:tf ov di:z d if rant peipoz. it iz best 
for you to decide for yourself which one you are going 
fd ju: td di'said fa jo.'self hwitf wau ju: a: gouiy 
to read. In all the papers I’ve mentioned you’ll find 
td ri:d. in o:l do peipoz aiv mcnfond ju:l faind 
long articles about home affairs, and about foreign 
toy a:tiklz o'bant houm o'feoz, ond o'baut for in 
affairs as well. I haven’t said anything about the 
o'feoz oz wel. ai hccvnt scd cnipiy o'baut di 
evening papers, as I don’t think they will interest you; 
r.vniy peipoz, oz ai dount piyk dci v'il intrist ju:; 
they are almost full of articles about sport.” Storm: 
dci a:r oAmoust ful ov a:tikiz o'baut spo:tsto:m: 
“I am inclined to think you are right. I shall keep to 
“ai out in'klaind to piyk ju: a: rait. ai fol ki:p to 
the morning papers and buy a copy of each of those 
do mo.niy peipoz ond bai o kopi ov i:t( ov douz 
you have suggested.” 
ju: hov so'd^estid." 
Marshall then told Storm that, with one or two 
nia: fol den tould sto: m dot. und wau o tu: 
exceptions, all the big papers are printed both in 
ik'scpfonz, o:l do big peipoz a: printid boup in 
London and in some town in the north of England at 
l And on ond in sam taun in do no:p ov iyglond ot 
the same time. “It is a good idea to print the papers 
do seim taim. "it iz o gud ai'dio to print do peipoz 
The Forty-Eighth (48th) Chapter. 
in two places. A man in the north of England is then 
in tu: pleisiz. a wcni in da na:p av iy gland iz den 
able to get a copy of his paper just as quickly as a man 
eibl ta get a kapi av hiz peipa d^Ast az kunkli az a rncen 
in London,” he said. Storm: “I think that is a good 
in lAtidan” hi: sed. starm: “ai piyk dcet iz a gud 
thing. Nowadays it’s important to read newspapers.” 
pit). nauadeiz its ini'pa :t ant ta ri:d nju:speipaz. ,} 
“Yes, it is one of the ways in which people, if they 
“jes, it iz WAn av da weiz in hwitj pi:pl. if dei 
take things seriously, may learn more, and so continue 
teik pirjz siariasli, mei la:n ma:, and sou kan'tinju: 
their education after they have left school. Books, of 
dear edju.'keifan a.fta dei hav left sku:l. buks, av 
course, are a great help to people who wish to educate 
ka:s, a:r a greit help ta pi:pi hu: wif tu edju:keit 
themselves, but newspapers can do quite a lot. The 
dani'selvz, bat nju.speipaz kan du: kufait a lat. da 
papers, however, might do even more to give people 
peipaz, hau'eva, wait du: i:van ma: ta giv pi:pi 
a better education; but in our days there is a tendency 
a betar edju:'keifan; bat in ana deiz daz a tendansi 
to fill the papers with articles about sport and politics, 
ta fil da peipaz wid a:tiklz a'bant spa:t and palitiks, 
and to leave out things that might be more useful. 
and ta li:v aut piyz dat mait hi: ma: ju.sful. 
One notices this tendency more and more as the years 
w\n noutisiz dis tendansi ma:r and ma: az da jiaz 
pass, and as it is the case in every country with hardly 
pa:s, and az it iz dd kcis in evri k\ntri mid ha:dli 
any exception, I think we might speak of it as an inter¬ 
im ik'sepfan, ai pirjk mi: mait spi:k dv it dz dn inta- 
national tendency.” “I see nothing wrong in reading 
'ncefanal tend ansi” “ai si: HApiy rjrj in ri.diy 
articles about politics,” Storm answered. “In a country 
a:tiklz a'baut pjlitiks” stj:m a:nsad. “in d kAntri 
where the people take part in the government of their 
hwsd dd pi:pi teik pa:t in dd gAvanmant dv dea 
country and any man may become a Member of 
kAntri dnd eni mcen mei bik\m d membdr dv 
Parliament, the more people know about politics, the 
pa:hmant . dd nv: pi:pi nou d'baut pjlitiks, dd 
better, in my opinion.” “There is something in what 
betd, in mai a'pin j an” “ddz sAinpiy in hwjt 
you say there,” was all that Marshall could say to this. 
ju: sei ded ,” Wdz j: 1 ddt ma:fdl kdd sei td dis. 
“Speaking of reading,” Storm continued, “I have noticed 
“spi:kifj dv ri.diy” sto:m kdn'tinju:d , “ai hdv noutist 
that there is not much space between the lines in your 
ddt ddz njf mAtf speis bi'twi:n da lainz in jj: 
papers. That is bad for one’s eyes, I think. But of 
peipdz. dcct iz bccd. fa WAnz aiz, ai piyk. bat av 
course, if you add up all the space saved between the 
kj:s, if ju: ccd Ap j:1 da speis seivd bi'twi:n da 
lines in this way, it comes to quite a lot, doesn’t it? 
lainz in dis mei, it kAmz td kwait a ht, dAznt itf 
The Forty-Eighth (48th) Chapter. 
More reading matter for the same money! 
ma: ri.diy meet a fa da seim ihahU 
‘ Newspaper work interests me. I think that when I 
“ njii:speipa wa:k intrists mi:. ai piyk dat hwen ui 
know England and the English a little better, I shall 
non iy gland and di iyglif a litl beta, ai fal 
write some articles about England and try to send them 
mit sam a.tiklz a'baut iygland and trai ta send dam 
to one of our papers at home. So be careful what you 
ta wah av ana peipaz at houm. sou bi: keaful hwat ju: 
say and do from now on, Marshall; everything that you 
set and du: fram nan an, ma.jal: evripiy dat ju: 
say will be used against you! 5 ' “And I,” replied Marshall 
sei wit bi: ju:zd a'geinst ju:!” “and ai” rfplaid ma:fal 
with a smile, carefully folding up his Daily Telegraph 
wid a small, krafuli fouldiy \p hiz deili tcligrarf 
and putting it under his arm, “shall write an article 
and putiy it And a hiz a: m, “fal rait an a: tiki 
called “Educating a Young Foreigner in London” and 
ka:ld “ cdju: keitiy a j\y farina in l And an” and 
tell about all the funny questions you have asked me.” 
tel a'baut a:I da f\ni kwestjanz ju: hav a:skt mi:.” 
So saying, Marshall took his friend back to the office 
sou seiiy, ma:fal tuk hiz frend bcek ta di afis 
from the small restaurant where they had been having 
fram da sma:l restara.y hwea dei had bi:n heeviy 
lunch. Each had his paper folded under his arm. 
/am/. i:tj heed hiz peipa fouldid \nda hiz a:m. 
WORDS: 
event 
happen 
opinion 
ought 
future 
serious 
duty 
memory 
case 
page 
on account of 
limit 
press 
suggestion 
suggest 
copy 
political 
party 
Conservatives 
Liberals 
Labour Party 
politics 
government 
affair 
inclined 
circulation 
growth 
rapid 
space 
fold 
exception 
print 
EXERCISE A. 
not remember many of the names of the English news¬ 
papers the English will buy. Storm asked Marshall for 
in order to decide which one would suit him best. In 
its circulation is not nearly so great as that of the Daily 
between the lines. He thought it funny to see English¬ 
The Forty-Eighth (48th) Chapter. 
EXERCISE B. 
Answer these questions with full sentences: 
Where do you live, in a flat or in a house of your own? 
read a day, and what are the names of them? . .. Do 
you collect foreign stamps or coins? .. . How long have 
for studying English? .. . Did you ever make a trip to 
care (verb) 
education 
educate 
tendency 
article 
race 
daily 
telegraph 
chronicle 
herald 
editor 
past 
visit? .. . What part of England would you like to go 
to, if you were to go there during your holidays? .. . 
EXERCISE C. GRAMMAR. 
We have mentioned two kinds of pronouns: the per¬ 
sonal and the possessive pronouns. Now we will talk 
about a third kind called the demonstrative | di'man- 
strativ ] pronouns. The demonstrative pronouns are: this, 
these; that, those. ‘This’ and ‘that’ are used in the singu¬ 
lar, and ‘these’ and ‘those’ are used in the plural. 
‘This’ and ‘these’ are used about persons or things that 
are near us, and ‘that’ and ‘those’ about persons or 
things that are farther away. Examples: This is my 
house, and that is Johnson’s, that is, the house here is 
my house, and the house over there is Johnson’s. This 
is my brother (here). That is Mr. Smith (over there). 
This book is one of the best I have read. That book is 
no good. This evening (to-day) I have come home early. 
That evening (some days ago) I came home very late. 
These shoes are very expensive, but those are cheaper. 
Questions: 
Which of the demonstrative pronouns point at things 
pronouns are used in the singular, and which are used 
EXERCISE D. 
siksti'eit . nelsn roud, zvimbldan. 
da fa: st av sap' te mb a. 
dia wud, 
ai was veri glced ta get da bceg ful av linin and \da pigs 
hwitf mai sista sent mi:. ai a.lmoust bi'li.v dat ju: helpt 
ha: ta peek it; a ga:l wad nova hav bi:n eibJ ta pink 
av a:I do us pigs. 
it is nais av ju: ta ruit and tel mi: hwat ju: and braun 
a: du:ig. ai am stil di'vaidig mai ha:t in i.kwal pa:ts bi- 
1 twi:n mai nju: zva:k and laif at houm , sou ai am veri 
intristid in da nju:z dat ju: send, wil ju: pli.s send mi: 
saw av da foutagra:fs fram aua trip, tu:? 
la:st scetadi ai went ta si: a geim av rxgbi futba:l, a 
veri streind 3 geim, ai kan tel ju:. ai ra:da gat di im'prejan 
dat a greit bcctl was birig fa:t far a f\ni kaind av ba:l, 
hwitf evribadi was traiig ta teik a'zvei fram evribadi els and 
kceri fram zv\n pleis tu a'ywda \nda his a:m! 
ai am la:nig meni nju: pigs at di afis, hwitf ai fal tel 
ju: a'baut in mai nekst leta. ri'memba mi: ta braun. pli:s. 
ja:s sin'siali. 
starm 
