Chapter Forty-Nine (49). 
The Forty-Ninth (49th) Chapter. 
A VISIT TO THE HARBOUR OF LONDON 
Storm had had a busy morning at the office; the 
sto:m had heed a bizi mo:niy at di of is; da 
manager's bell had rung for him at least five times. 
mcenid^az bel had rAy fa him at li:st faiv taimz. 
“The old man does nothing but ring his bell for me 
“di ould man dAZ nApiy bat riy hiz bel fa mi: 
this morning,” Storm said to Marshall. While he was 
dis mo:niy” sto:m sed ta ma:fal. hwail hi: waz 
speaking, the bell rang once more. When he had 
spiikiy, da bel ray WAns mo:. hwen hi: had 
entered the manager’s office, the manager began by 
entad da manid^az ofis, da manid^a bi'gcen bai 
saying, “You know that the harbour of London is the 
seiiy, “ju: nou dat da ha: bar av l And an iz da 
greatest harbour in existence, and that ships go from 
greitist ha:bar in ig'zistans, and dat fips gou fram 
there to all parts of the world; but have you ever 
dea tu o:l pa:ts av da wa:ld; bat hav ju: eva 
visited it? If not,” he continued, “there is a chance 
vizitid it? if not” hi: kan'tinju:d, “daz a tfa.ns 
for you to do so to-day. I want you to go down to a 
fa ju: ta du: sou ta l dei. ai wont ju: ta gou daun tu a 
ship lying in the harbour and speak to the captain of 
fip laiiy in da ha:ba and spi:k ta da kaptin av 
He rings, he rang, 
he has rung [rinz, 
rceri, rA>/J. 
the old man = a 
name used in fun 
by clerks about 
the manager 
bell 
ship 
13/1 
authority = the 
right to decide 
things and give 
orders 
the boat. We often have trouble with him, because he 
da bout, wi: o:fn hcev trxbl wid him, bi'koz hi: 
decides things for the firm without asking us. If he 
di'saidz piyz fa da fa:m wid'aut a:skiy as. if hi: 
is in doubt about anything connected with the affairs 
iz in daut a'baut enipiy ka'nektid wid di a'feaz 
of the firm, he does not ask us what to do, but decides 
av da fa:m, hi: dAZ not a:sk as hwot ta du:, bat di'saidz 
the matter himself; it matters nothing to him that we’ve 
da mceta him'self; it mcetaz nApiy tu him dat wi:v 
never given him any authority to do so. But, of course, 
neva givn him eni o:'poriti ta du: sou. bAt, av ko:s, 
we cannot take the responsibility for what he does 
wi: kcenot teik da risponsa'biliti fa hwot hi: dAZ 
without being told by us. If the responsibility is to 
wid'aut bi:iy tould bai as. if da risponsa'biliti iz ta 
be ours, that is, if we are to pay for the goods and 
bi: auaz, deet iz, if wi: a: ta pei fa da gudz and 
anything that is done with them, he must ask us what 
enipiy dat iz Jaw ivid dam, hi: mast a:sk as hwot 
to do and not decide things on his own. It is very 
ta du: and not di'said piyz on hiz oun. it iz veri 
unpleasant to have anything to do with people like 
An'pleznt ta hcev enipiy ta du: wid pi:pi laik 
this captain, who do things without any authority from 
dis keep tin, hu: du: piyz wid'aut eni o:'poriti from 
those for whom they work. This man speaks English 
douz fa hu:m dei wa:k. dis meen spi'.ks iyglif 
The Forty-Ninth (49th) Chapter. 
very poorly, but I hope that you’ll be able to make 
veri puali, bat ai houp ddt ju:l bi: eibl ta meik 
out what he says, for I want you to tell him that he 
aut hzvat hi: sez, far ai want ju: ta tel him dat hi: 
may give as many orders as he likes to the men on 
mei giv az meni a:daz az hi: laiks ta da men an 
his ship, but that if the firm has any orders to give, 
hiz fip, bat dat if da fa:m haz eni a:daz ta giv, 
lying in the harbour, and on which duty must be paid 
laiiy in da ha:ba, and an hwitj dju:ti mast bi: peid 
first. We need the goods badly, because we have sold 
fa.st. zvi: ni:d da gudz bcedli , bi'kaz zvi: hav sould 
all that we had, so that we have no more in stock. If 
a:l dat zvi: heed, sou dat zvi: hcev nou ma:r in stak. if 
an article sells well, it’s always best to have a good 
an a:tiki selz wel, its a:lzvaz best ta hcev a gud 
supply in stock. I will write out a cheque for the 
sa'plai in stak. ai veil rait aut a tfek fa di 
amount of money that will have to be paid in duty, 
a'maunt av mAni dat veil hcev ta bi: peid in dju:ti, 
and you can take it with you. The amount of the duty 
and ju: kan teik it zvid ju:. di a'maunt av da dju:ti 
is £ 10/9/6, and I will write out the cheque 
iz ten paundz nain and siks, and ai mil rait aut da tfek 
at once. You will remember, of course, to get a receipt 
at zvahs. ju: zvil ri'memba, av ka:s, ta get a ri'si:t 
13 / 2 
make out = un 
derstand 
We need the goods 
badly = we need 
the goods very 
much. 
cheque 
receipt 
41)5 
for the amount, so that our book-keeping department 
fa di d'maunt, sou dat and bukkiipiy dipa:tmant 
can see that the money has been paid.” 
kan si: dat da mAni haz bi:n peid” 
Storm promised to get a receipt for the cheque, and 
sta:m pramist ta get a ri'si:t fa da tfek, and 
mentioned that it would be his first visit to the harbour, 
menfand dat it wad bi: hiz fa:st vizit ta da ha:ba, 
after which he left the manager’s office. 
a:fta hwitf hi: left da mcenidyz afis. 
The man to whom he paid the money at the custom¬ 
er mcen ta hu:m hi: peid da mxni at da kAstam- 
house soon discovered that Storm was a foreigner, and 
haus su:n dis'kAvad dat sta:m waz a farina, and 
on hearing that it was his first visit to the harbour, 
an liiariy dat it waz hiz fa:st vizit ta da ha:ba, 
he offered to show him some of the things worth seeing 
hi: afad ta fou him sAm av da piyz wa:p si:iy 
there. The first building to which they came was used 
dea. da fa:st bildiy ta hwitf dei keim waz ju:zd 
to store corn. Storm’s new friend said that many of 
ta sta: ka:n. sta:mz nju: frend sed dat meni av 
grain = corn 
the buildings were used for grain. “What kind of grain 
da bildiyz wa: ju:zd fa grein. “hwat kaind av grein 
do you store here?” he asked the man. “There are 
dn: ju: sta: hia?” hi: cr.skt da mcen. “dea 
three or four important kinds,” he answered, “but by 
pri: a fa:r iin'pa:tant kaindz” hi: a.nsad, cc bat bai 
The Forty-Ninth (49th) Chapter. 
far the most important is wheat, because most of the 
fa: da moust im'po:tant iz hwi:t, bi'koz moust av 3 b 
bread eaten in England is white bread. However, we 
bred i:tn in iy gland iz hwait bred. hau'eva, wi: 
don't produce enough wheat in England for our own 
dount pra'dju:s i'nAf hivi:t in iygland far auar oun 
supply, and although there is such a lot stored here, 
sa'plai, and o:l'dou daz SAtf a lot sto:d hia, 
it is not enough to supply the country with white bread 
it iz not i'nAf ta sa'plai da kAntri wid hwait bred 
for more than a month. Other countries have supplied 
fa mo: dan a mAnp. Ada kAntriz hav sa'plaid 
us with the greater part of our wheat for the last 
as wid da greita pa:t av aua hwi:t fa da la:st 
hundred years. At one time England was a country 
hAndrad jiaz. at WAn taim iy gland waz a kAntri 
with many farms and farmers, and as in those days 
wid meni fa:mz and fa:maz, and <ez in douz deiz 
there was more than enough wheat, we used to export 
dea waz mo: dan i'nAf hwi:t, wi: ju:st tu eks'po.t 
wheat to other countries. Then the rise of industries 
hwi:t tu Ada kAntriz. den da raiz av indastriz 
using a lot of machinery suddenly changed the whole 
ju:ziy a lot av ma'fi.nari sAdnli tfeind^d da houl 
picture, and one factory was built after another, so that 
piktfa, and WAn fcektari waz bilt a:ftar a'nAda, sou dat 
in our days England is most interested in her industries. 
in aua deiz iy gland iz moust intristid in ha:r indastriz. 
industry = the sy¬ 
stem of producing 
goods with the 
help of machines 
machinery = 
machines 
woollen (here) = 
wool 
rat 
He feeds, he fed, 
he has fed [fi:dz, 
fed, fed]. 
The coal, steel, iron, cotton, and woollen industries are 
dd koul, sti:l, aidn, kotn, dnd wulin inddstriz a: 
by far the most important. I will now take you to a 
bai fa: dd moust im!po:tent. ax wil nau teik ju: tu d 
building that will, no doubt, interest you very much. 
bilditj ddt wil, nou daut, intrist ju: veri niAtf. 
In it we store the many different articles that come 
in it wi: sto: dd meni difrent a:tiklz ddt kAm 
from the East.” 
frdm di i:st.” 
As soon as they entered the building, Storm saw five 
dz su:n dz dei entdd dd bildirj, sto:m so: faiv 
or six cats and asked the man what they wanted cats 
d siks kats dnd a:skt dd man hwot dei wontid kats 
so to speak,” his guide explained. “The buildings here 
sou td spi:k ,” hiz gaid iks'pleind. “dd bildifjz hidr 
are all full of rats, and it is the duty of the cats to 
a: o:l ful dv rats, dnd it iz dd dju:ti ev dd kats td 
catch and eat the rats. We feed them once a day on 
katf dnd i:t dd rats, wi: fi:d ddm wahs d dei on 
fresh meat, not very much, of course, but just enough 
fref mi:t, not vert mAtf, ev ko:s, bet d^ASt i'nAf 
to make them feel that they belong to us. For the rest, 
td meik dem fi:l ddt dei bi'loy tu as. fd dd rest, 
they must catch rats, and as they all look nice and well 
dei mest katf rats, end ez dei o:l luk nais end wel 
The Forty-Ninth (49th) Chapter. 
fed, it seems that they are doing their work properly. 
fed, it si:mz dat dei a: du:iy dea wa:k propali. 
Some of the rats are very big and will sometimes even 
saw, av da rests a: veri big and wit SAmtaimz i:van 
He bites, he bit, he 
has bitten [baits, 
bit, bitn]. 
a very unpleasant experience, I can tell you.” 
a veri An'pleznt iks 1 piarians , ai kan tel ju:” 
Storm saw a man standing in front of a large box with 
sto:m so: a mcen stcendiy in frAnt av a la:d$ boks mid 
a hammer in his hand. He was using the hammer to 
a hcemar in hiz hcend. hi: waz ju:ziy da hcema tu 
open the box, on one of the sides of which were some 
oupan da boks, on wah av da saidz av hwitj wa: saw, 
very strange marks. Storm could not understand the 
veri streind 3 wa:ks. sto:m kad not Anda'stand da 
meaning of the marks, but was told that the box had 
mi:niff av da ma:ks, bat waz tould dat da boks had 
hammer 
come from the East, and that the marks must be in 
kAW fram di i:st, and dat da ma:ks mast bi: in 
some strange eastern language. This man had worked 
saw streind 3 i:stan laygwid 3 . dis mcen had wa:kt 
there for twenty-five years and knew almost all that 
dea fa twentifaiv jiaz and nju: o:lmoust o:l dat 
could be known about articles from the East; he was 
kad bi: noun a'baut a: tikis fram di i:st; hi: waz 
an expert at his work. There were a number of other 
an ekspa.t at hiz wa:k. dea zva:r a nAwbar av Ada 
an expert = a man 
of great experience 
in his work 
men, too, who on account of many years’ experience 
men, tu:, hu: on a'kaunt dv meni jidz iks'piarians 
had become real experts at their work. Storm remained 
had bi'kAm rial ekspa:ts at dea wa:k. sto:m ri'meind 
in front of the box that was being opened, as he wanted 
in frAnt av da baks dat waz bi:iy oupand, az hi: wantid 
to see what it contained. After a few minutes, he saw 
ta si: hwat it kan x teind. a:ftar a fju: minits, hi: so: 
that it contained many eastern articles which are usually 
dat it kan'teind meni i:stan a:tiklz limitj a: ju:$ueli 
sold very cheap. The man, however, explained that 
sould veri tfi:p. da mcen, hau'eva, iks'pleind dat 
the articles were no longer so cheap as they used to be. 
di a:tiklz wa: nou layga sou tfi:p az dei ju:st ta bi:. 
They had always paid insurance on the goods, so that 
dei had a:\waz peid irijuarans an da gudz, sou dat 
if anything should happen to them on the way to Europe, 
if enipiy fad hapn ta dam an da wei ta juarap , 
the firm would receive money for the damage that had 
da fa:m wad ri'si:v mAni fa da damid$ dat had 
been done, but both during and after the war, they had 
bi:n dAn, bat boup djuariy and a:fta da wa:, dei had 
had to pay a much higher insurance on goods from 
had ta pei a mAtf haiar in'fuarans an gudz fram 
foreign countries. 
far in kAntriz. 
Storm noticed that the building had many large doors, 
sta:m noutist dat da bildiy had meni la:d$ da:z, 
The Forty-Ninth (49th) Chapter. 
through which he could see some lorries and also a 
pru: hwitf hi: kdd si: sam hriz and a:lsou a 
horse and cart. Porters were busy taking goods to the 
Ju:s and ka:t. pa:taz wa: bizi teikiy gudz ta da 
doors, where the lorries and carts were being loaded. 
da:z, hwea da hriz and ka:ts wa: bi:iy loudid. 
Storm watched the porters at work for some minutes 
sta:m watft da pa:taz at wa:k fa s\m minits 
and then spoke to one of them, saying that it must be 
and den spouk ta wah av dam, seiiy dat it mast bi: 
hard work. “Yes, indeed it is, sir,” the porter replied. 
ha:d wa:k. <c jes, in'di.d it iz, sa:” da pa:ta rtplaid. 
“And if I had one pound in money for every pound I 
“and if ai heed wah paund in niAni far evri paund ai 
have loaded in weight, I should be a very rich man!” 
hav loudid in weit, ai fad bi: a veri ritf mcen!” 
Storm’s new friend now offered to show him down to 
sta.mz nju: frend nau a fad ta fou him daun ta 
the ship that he wanted to visit. On their way they 
da fip dat hi: wantid ta vizit. an dea wei dei 
saw a boat full of coal leaving the harbour. Storm: “The 
sa: a bout ful av koul li:viy da ha:ba. sta:m: “da 
ship is just as dirty and black as the coal itself.” “Yes, 
fip iz d^ASt az da:ti and blcck az da koul it'self.” “jes, 
black is the right colour for a ship carrying coal.” 
blcek iz da rait kAla far a fip kceriiy koul” 
Storm: “Look, there are two small boats just in front 
sta:m: “luk , dea tu: sma:l bouts d^ASt in fr\nt 
load = put 
goods on 
indeed = really 
carrying coal = 
loaded with coal 
Where is she bound 
for = where is she 
going to? 
He ships, 
he shipped, 
he has shipped. 
of her, pulling her along! They’re called tugs, aren’t 
av ha:, puliy ha:r a'lay! dea ka:ld t\gz, a:nt 
they? Do you know where she is bound for?” “She is 
dei? du: jit: nou hwea fi: iz bound fa:?” “fi: iz 
bound for Scandinavia, for one of the countries with 
bound fa skandi'neivja , fa wah av da hwntriz zvid 
little or no coal. The two small boats are called tugs 
litl a: nou koul. da tu: sma:l bouts o: ka:ld t\gz 
all right. They’re pulling her out into the middle of 
a:l rait. dea puliy ha:r out inta da midi av 
the river.” “I don’t understand why coal is shipped 
da riva” “ai dount Anda'stand hwai koul iz fipt 
from London,” said Storm, “because all the mines from 
fram Undan” sed sta:m , cc bi'kaz a:l da mainz fram 
which the coal is taken are much farther north.” “They 
hwitf da koul iz teikn a: niAtf fa:da na:p” C( dei 
usually ship the coal from some place near the coal 
ju.^uali fip da koul fram SAm pleis nia da koul 
mines, but now and then it’s shipped from London,” the 
mainz, bat nau and den its fipt fram l And an” da 
man replied. 
man rtplaid. 
When at last they reached the ship that Storm was 
hwen at la:st dei ri:tjt da fip dat sta:m waz 
looking for, he saw two sailors painting the side of the 
lukitj fa:, hi: sa: tu: seilaz peintiy da said av da 
ship with black paint. Storm turned to his friend, and 
fip wid blak peint. sta:m ta:nd ta hiz frend, and 
The Forty-Ninth (49th) Chapter. 
said, “We have now passed five or six ships, and on 
sed, “ivi: hav nau pa:st faiv a siks Sips, and an 
all of them one or two sailors have been painting. Have 
a:l av dam w\n a tu: seilaz h<w bi:n peintiy. luci' 
sailors nothing else to do but to paint the sides of their 
seilaz n\piy els ta du: bat ta point da saids av dea 
ships?” He called to the two sailors, asking them if 
Sips?” hi: ka:ld ta da tu: seilaz, o.skiy dam if 
the captain was on board. On hearing that he was, 
da k(optin waz an ba:d. an hiariy dat hi: was, 
Storm said good-bye to his guide, and went on board. 
sta:m sod gud'bai ta his gciid, and went an ba:d. 
He found the captain standing with another officer of 
hi: found da kceptin stcendiy wid a'n\dar afisa av 
the ship. When Storm had introduced himself, the 
da fip. hwcn sta:m had intra'dju:st him'self, di 
officer walked away, and Storm began to tell the cap- 
afisa wa:kt a'wei, and sta:m bi'gcen ta tel da keep - 
tain what the manager had said. The captain soon got 
tin hwat da mcenid^a had sed. da kceptin su:n gat 
very angry and said to Storm, “I’m a man who has 
veri ccygri and sed ta sta:m, “aim a mcen hu: has 
sailed all the oceans of the world, and yet your manager, 
seild a:l di on fans av da we: Id, and jet ja: mcenid^a, 
who sits in his office all day, sends me his foolish 
hu: sits in his afis a:l dei, sends mi: his fu:lif 
orders.” 
a:daz. 3) 
officer 
ocean = sea 
13/3 
grew (here) = got 
trade = business 
However, after Storm had explained in detail why it 
hau'cva, a:ftd stj:m had iks'pleind in di'.teil hwai it 
was important that the captain should never decide 
zvaz ini pa :tant dat da keep tin fad v neva di'said 
anything for the firm on his own, the captain grew 
cnipiij fa da fa:m an hiz oun, da kceptin gru: 
quieter and promised to do only what he was told. 
kwaiata and pramist ta du: ounli hwat hi: zvaz tould. 
“I will do as your manager wishes,” he said. “The 
“ai wil du: az fa: mcenid^a wifiz,” hi: sed. “da 
trade between England and my country is very great, 
treid bi'twirn iygland and mai kwntri iz veri greit, 
and I hope that I may help to make the two countries 
and ai ho up dat ai mei help ta meik da tu: kxntriz 
buy still more from each other, so that the trade may 
bai stil wa: frain i:tf Ada, sou dat da treid mei 
become still greater.” 
bi'kAin stil greita” 
When Storm returned to the office, the manager thanked 
hwen sta:m ri'ta:nd ta di afis, da mcenid^a pceykt 
him for what he had done. 
him fa hwat hi: had d\n. 
EXERCISE A. 
While Storm was speaking to Marshall, the manager 
The Forty-Ninth (49th) Chapter. 
boat. The captain often decided things for the firm 
hoped that Storm would be able to-what the 
for the cheque. Near the harbour Storm saw many 
greater part of her wheat. England has great cotton and 
eastern articles. These goods were not so cheap now 
Storm's new friend said. 
EXERCISE B. 
country that has to do with your work in some way. 
WORDS: 
bell 
ring 
rang 
rung 
harbour 
ship 
ship (verb) 
captain 
responsibility 
authority 
make out 
cheque 
amount 
receipt 
stock 
store (verb) 
grain 
wheat 
supply (verb) 
industry 
machinery 
rat 
feed 
fed 
bite 
bit 
bitten 
hammer 
mark 
expert 
contain 
insurance 
lorry 
cart 
load 
black 
bound 
pull 
mine 
paint 
paint (verb) 
sailor 
officer 
ocean 
trade 
indeed 
Scandinavia 
tug 
There is sure to be something or other that you use in 
your work which comes from a foreign country. Tell 
us as much as you know about where it comes from, 
and how it gets here. Explain everything as well as 
you can in your own words. 
EXERCISE C. GRAMMAR. 
The words who, whom, whose, which, are called rela¬ 
tive [reldtiv] pronouns. Here is an example to show 
you how they are used: It is the postman who brings 
the letters in the morning. In this sentence there are 
two parts: ‘It is the postman’ and ‘who brings the letters 
in the morning’. The relative pronoun who in the last 
part is connected with and takes the place of the word 
‘postman’ in the first part. 
Now, these relative pronouns are not all used in the 
same way. From the following examples you will see 
that who, whom, whose are used about persons, and 
that which is used about animals and things. You will 
also notice that who is used about the person who does 
or is something, but that whom is used about the person 
to whom something is done or happens, while whose 
is used about the person to whom something belongs. 
Examples: The man who found the boy was very old. 
The dog which found the boy was very old. The woman 
whom I saw yesterday was very old. The dog which 
I saw yesterday was very old. The book which I bought 
to-day was very dear. There comes the girl whose 
brother is ill. 
The Forty-Ninth (49th) Chapter. 
Instead of .who, whom, and which in the examples 
given we might have put that, which may also be used 
as a relative pronoun, both when we speak of persons 
and when we speak of animals or things. Here are 
some examples: Here comes the man that lives in the 
new house. It was his wife that I saw yesterday. Is 
this the cat that your mother gave you? 
‘My father, whom you saw yesterday, has left for Lon¬ 
don this morning.’ ‘Buckingham Palace, which is one 
of the finest buildings in London, is the home of the 
King and Queen.’ In these sentences, where the rela¬ 
tive pronoun is connected with and takes the place of 
the name of a thing or person, well-known beforehand, 
we cannot use that, but only the pronouns who (whom, 
whose) and which. 
Notice that you may leave out the relative pronoun 
altogether when it takes the place of the person, 
the animal, or the thing that something is done to. 
Examples: It was his wife I saw yesterday. Is this the 
cat your mother gave you? 
Questions: 
relative pronouns do we use when speaking of per¬ 
Can you give an example of how the pronoun ‘whom’ 
is used? ..: What is the genitive of the relative pronoun 
