Chapter Five (5). 
The Fifth (5th) Chapter. 
THE BODY 
A person has four limbs. All persons have four limbs. 
a pd:sn hcez fa: limz. a:l pa:snz hcev fa: limz. 
The four limbs are on the body. The four limbs are the 
da fa: limz a: an da badi. da fa: limz a: da 
two arms and the two legs. How many limbs has John? 
tu: a:mz and da tu: legz . hau meni limz hcez dyn? 
John has four limbs. What are the four limbs? The four 
dyn hcez fa: limz. hwat a: da fa: limz? da fa: 
limbs are the two arms and the two legs. On the arm 
limz a: da tu: a:mz and da tu: legz. an di a:m 
is a hand, and the hand has five fingers. Where are the 
iz a hcend, and da hcend hcez faiv fiygaz. hwear a: da 
hands? The hands are on the arms. How many fingers 
hcendz? da hcendz a: an di a:mz. hau meni fiygaz 
i 
has the hand? The hand has five fingers. 
hcez da hcend? da hcend hcez faiv fiygaz. 
On the leg is a foot, and the foot has five toes. All legs 
an da leg iz a fut, and da fut hcez faiv touz. a:l legz 
have feet, and all feet have five toes. Where are the 
hcev fi:t, and a:l fi:t hcev faiv touz. hwear a: da 
feet? The feet are on the legs. How many toes has the 
fi:t? da fi:t a: an da legz. hau meni touz hcez da 
one toe 
two toes 
foot? The foot has five toes. How many fingers has 
fut? da fut hcez faiv touz. hau meni fiygaz hcez 
one foot 
two feet 
37 
Chapter Five (5). 
John's hair = the 
hair of John. 
Mrs.Smith'shair = 
the hair of Mrs. 
Smith. 
Helen? She has ten fingers on her two hands. How many 
helin? fi: haz ten figgaz on ha: tu: hands, hau meni 
toes has she? She has ten toes on her two feet. The body 
tons her2 fi:? fi: haz ten touz on ho: tu: fi:t. fro bodi 
has a head. What is the head? The head is the top of 
has a hed. hwot iz da hed? da hed iz da top av 
the body. On the head many persons have hair. Not 
da bodi. on da hed meni pa:snz hcev hed. not 
all persons have hair; many old men have no hair. 
o:l pa:snz hcev hea; meni ould men hav nou hea. 
Has Mr. Smith long hair? No, he has short hair. Is Mrs. 
hcez mist a smip log hea? nou, hi: haz jo:t hea. iz misiz 
Smith’s hair long? Yes, she has long hair; she has longer 
smips hea log? jes, fi: hcez log hea; fi: haz logga 
hair than Mr. Smith. Is Helens hair also long? No, she 
hea dan mist a smip. iz helinz hea o:lsoulog? nou, fi: 
has short hair, but John’s hair is shorter than Helen’s. 
has fo:t hea, b\t dynz hea iz fo:ta dan helinz. 
Who has most hair, Mrs. Smith or Helen or John? Mrs. 
hu: haz moust hea, misiz smip o: helin o: dyn? misiz 
Smith has most hair; her hair is the longest. Has John 
smip haz moust hea; ha: hea iz da log gist, haz dyn 
more hair than Helen? No, Helen has more hair than 
mo: hea dan helin? nou, helin haz mo: hea dan 
John, but Mrs. Smith has most hair of all the persons 
dyn, b\t misiz smip haz moust hea av o:l da pa:snz 
38 
in the family. Mrs. Smith has long hair; she has much 
in da feemili. misiz smip hcez log hea; fi: haz niAtf 
The Fifth (5th) Chapter. 
hair. She has more hair than Helen. She has most hair 
hea. fi: hcez mo: hea dcen helin. fi: hcez moust hed 
of all the persons in the family. Has John much hair? 
sv o:l da pa:snz in da fcemili. hcez dyn mAtf he a? 
No, he has not much hair; his hair is short; but Mrs. 
nou, hi: hcez not mAtf hea; hiz hea iz jo:t; hAt misiz 
Smith has much hair; she has more hair than Mr. Smith 
smip hcez mAtf hea; fi: hcez mo: hea dcen mist a smip 
and the children. Have all men and women hair? No, 
and da tfildran. hcev o:l men and wimin hea? nou, 
not all men and women have hair; but most persons 
not o:l men and zuimin hcev hea; bAt moust pa:snz 
have hair. 
hcev hea. 
A person has a face. The face has two eyes and two 
a pa:sn hcez a feis. da feis hcez tu: adz and tu: 
ears. All persons have faces, and all faces have two 
iaz. o:l pa.snz hcev feisiz, and o:l feisiz hcev tu: 
eyes and two ears. How many eyes has Helen? Helen 
aiz and tu: iaz. hau meni aiz hcez helinf helin 
has two eyes; she has also two ears. Helen has also a 
hcez tu: aiz; fi: hcez o:lsou tu: iaz. helin hcez o:lsou a 
mouth and a nose in her face. Where are the nose and 
maup and a nouz in ha: feis. hwear a: da nouz and 
the mouth? They are in the face. What is the face? 
da maup? dei a: in da feis. hzvot iz da feis? 
The face is part of the head. What is on the head? 
da feis iz pa:t av da hed. hwot iz on da hed? 
much 
more 
most 
Mrs. Smith has 
much hair. 
She has more hair 
than Helen. 
She has most hair 
of all the persons 
in the family. 
many 
more 
most 
There are many 
people in Sweden. 
There are more 
people in England. 
There are most 
people in 
Germany. 
2/2 
39 
Chapter Five (5). 
There is hair on the head. Is the arm bigger than the 
dear iz he a an da hed. iz di a:m big a dcen da 
leg? No, the arm is smaller than the leg. 
leg? nou, di a:m iz smo:la dcen da leg. 
Are the fingers part of the face? No, the fingers are 
a: da fiygez pa:t av da feis? nou, da fiygaz a: 
part of the hands. What are the hands part of? The 
pa:t av da hcendz. hwot a: da hcendz pa:t ov? da 
hands are part of the arms. What are the ears part of? 
hcendz a: pa:t av di a:mz. hwot a: di iaz pa:t ov? 
The ears are part of the head. Are the feet part of the 
di iaz a: pa:t av da hed. a: da fi:t pa:t av di 
arms or of the legs? The feet are part of the legs. Is 
a:mz o: av da legz? da fi:t a: pa:t av da legz. iz 
the baby a boy or a girl? She is a girl. Is Mr. Smith 
da beibi a boi o: a ga:l? fi: iz a ga:l. iz mist a smip 
young or old? He is young. 
j\fj o: ould? hi: iz jAy. 
The neck is part of the body. On the neck is the head. 
da nek iz pa:t av da bodi. on da nek iz da hed. 
The stomach is also part of the body. The stomach is 
da stAmak iz o:lsou pa:t av da bodi. da stAmak iz 
at the front of the body. The back is also part of the 
cet da frAnt av da bodi. da bcek iz o.lsou pa:t av da 
body. The back is at the back of the body. The arms 
bodi. da bcek iz cet da bcek av da bodi. di a:mz 
are at the sides of the body. Where is the neck? The 
a: cet da saidz av da bodi. hwear iz da nek? da 
40 
The Fifth (5th) Chapter. 
neck is at the top of the body. Is the back at the top 
nek iz cet da top av da bodi. iz da bcek cat da top 
of the body? No, it is at the back of the body* Where 
av da bodif non, it iz cet da bcek av da bodi. hwear 
is the stomach? The stomach is at the front of the body. 
iz da stAmakf da stAmak iz cet da frAnt av da bodi. 
The face is at the front of the head, and the ears are at 
da feis iz cet da frAnt av da hed, and di iaz a: cet 
the sides of the head. Where are the arms? The arms 
da saidz av da hed. hwear a: di a:mz? di a:rnz 
are at the sides of the body. 
a: cet da saidz av da bodi. 
EXERCISE A. 
The body has four —. The four limbs of the body are 
the two — and the two —. On the arm is a —, and 
the hand has five —. The foot has five —. There 
are ten toes on the two —. On the — is hair. The 
head has a —. The face has two —, two —, a —, and 
a —. Mrs. Smith has — hair; her hair is — than 
Helen's; she has the — hair of all the persons in the 
family. John's hair is —; it is — than Helen's hair, 
but Baby has the — hair of all the children. — Helen 
much hair? No, she has not — hair, but she has — 
hair than John. Mrs. Smith has — hair of all the 
persons in the family. 
WORDS: 
body 
all 
limb 
arm 
leg 
on 
or 
hand 
finger 
foot 
feet 
toe 
head 
41 
Chapter Five (5). 
part 
at 
hair 
long 
short 
much 
face 
eye 
ear 
mouth 
nose 
neck 
stomach 
front 
back 
side 
most 
There are not — people in Denmark. There are — 
people in Sweden — in Denmark, but there are — 
people in Germany. Mr. — house is in England. 
Mrs. — hair is long. The windows are in the walls — 
the house. The roof-house is at the top. The — 
is at the top of the body, and on the neck is the —. 
The arms are at the — of the body. The back is at the 
— of the —. The stomach is at the — of the body. Are 
the hands part of the arms — of the legs? — are part 
of the arms. Is Baby a boy — a girl? She is a —. 
— are the feet part of? They are part of the —. 
What are the fingers — of? — are part of the hands. 
— is the face? The face is-front of the head. 
— all persons faces? Yes, — persons have faces, and 
all faces have two —, two —, a —, and a —. Have — 
persons hair? No, but — persons have hair. 
EXERCISE B. 
How many limbs has a person? ... What are the four 
limbs? ... Where are the fingers? ... What are the 
hands part of? ... On what part of the body are the 
toes? ... How many fingers and toes has Helen? ... 
How many legs has a person? ... What is in the face? 
... Where is the stomach? ... Where are the arms? ... 
Is the neck at the top of the body? ... Where is the 
head? ... What is on the head? ... Has Helen more 
hair than Mrs. Smith? ... Has Mrs. Smith much hair? 
... Which has most hair of all the persons in the family? 
42 
The Fifth (5th) Chapter. 
... Which of the children has the shortest hair? ... 
Have all people hair? ... What is at the back of the 
body? ... Are there many people in Denmark? ... Are 
there more people in England than in Germany? ... 
Which of the children is the biggest? ... Which is the 
smallest of the children? ... Is Helen bigger than 
John? ... 
43 
