Chapter Fifty (50). 
The Fiftieth (50th) Chapter. 
regard = look at 
among = in the 
number of 
DIRTY BUSINESS 
“What have you got there? 5 ' Marshall asked, noticing 
“hwjt hav jit: gat deaf” ma:fdl a:skt, noutisiy 
something that Storm was taking out of his pocket as 
SAmpiy dat sta.m waz teikiy aut av hiz pakit az 
they sat down to their lunch. “Stamps, 55 came the 
dei sect claim td dra I.\nf. “steemps” keim da 
reply. “Let’s have a look at them, 55 Marshall said, 
ri'plai. <( lcts hav a Ink at dam” mcv.fal seel, 
with the ready interest of a fellow-collector. Storm 
wid da redi intrist av a 'felouka'lekta. starm 
placed the stamps on the table, and Marshall began to 
plcist da steemps an da teibl, and mcr.jal bi'gecn ta 
go through them. He took up one at a time, held it 
gou pru: dam. hi: tuk Ap wah at a taim, held it 
up to the light, and regarded it carefully from all sides. 
Ap ta da lait, and ri'ga:did it keafuli fram a:l saidz. 
At last he picked out three among them and asked, 
at la:st hi: pikt aut pri: a'niAy dam and a:skt, 
“Who sold them to you?” “Why?” Storm wanted to 
“//■«: sould dam ta jit:?” “hwai?” sta:m wantid ta 
know. “Is there anything wrong with them?” “I 
non. “iz dar enipiy ray wid dam?” “ai 
should say there is,” Marshall replied. “As far as I’m 
fad sci dar iz,” ma:fal ri'plaid. t£ az fa:r az aim 
The Fiftieth (50th) Chapter. 
able to judge, there are at least three false stamps 
cibl ta d^Ad^, dear at li:st pri: fj:ls stamps 
among them.” Storm regarded Marshall with surprise 
a'niArj dam . 33 sta:m riga:did ma:jal wid sa'praiz 
in his eyes: “But the owner of the stamp-shop told me 
in his aiz: <{ bat di ounar av da stampfap tould mi: 
on his word of honour that they were real and worth 
an hiz wa:d av ana dat dei wa: rial and zva:p 
the money. I must say that I don’t know very much 
da mAtii. ai mast sei dat ai dount nou veri mAtf 
about stamps from that country, so I wasn’t able to 
a'baut stamps fram dat kAntri, son ai waznt eibl ta 
judge for myself, but the owner was such a nice old 
d^Ad^ fa mai'self, bat di ouna zvaz SAtj a nais ould 
man, and I really felt that he was telling me the truth 
man, and ai riali felt dat hi: zvaz telirj mi: da tru:p 
about those stamps. It was that little shop with 
a'baut douz stamps. it zvaz dat litl jap zvid 
stamps and coins a few houses from the office, you 
stamps and kainz a fju: hauziz fram di afis, ju: 
know.” “I thought so!” said Marshall. “Word of 
nou . 33 “ai pa:t sou ! 33 sed ma:jal. “zva:d av 
honour! That man doesn’t know what the word 
ana! dat man dxznt nou hzvat da zva:d 
‘honour’ means. He won’t tell the truth about anything 
*ana y mi:nz. hi: zvount tel da tru:p a'baut enipifj 
if he thinks he can make money by lying about it. It 
if hi: piyks hi: kan meik niAni bai laiitj a'baut it. it 
truth = what is 
not false 
He lies, he lied, 
he has lied 
[lais, laid, laid J 
r >0f) 
former = earlier 
was the same with the former owner of the shop; he 
was da seim wid da fa:mar ounar av da jap; hi: 
either = any 
(of two) 
was just as bad as this one; you can’t trust those two 
ivaz d$Ast as heed as dis wah; ju: ka:nt tr\st Sous tu: 
men. You should never believe anything that either 
men. ju: fad nova bi'li:v empty dat aidar 
of them says. I went there once to buy some Roman 
av dam ses. ai went dea waiis ta bai sam rouman 
coins in order to start a collection. I didn’t know much 
kains in a:da ta sta:t a ka'lckfan. ai didnt non iiiAtj 
about coins at that time and was not able to judge the 
a [ baut kains at deet taint and was nat eibl ta d^Ad^ da 
quality of two silver pieces the man showed me, so I 
kwaliti av tu: silva pi:sis da nuen foud mi:, sou ai 
had to trust his word that the coins were real old 
heed ta trAst his wa:d dat da kains wa: rial ould 
Roman pieces. Some months later I was showing 
rouman pi:sis. s\m niAnps leita ai was fouiy 
my new little collection to a friend, an expert in the 
mai nju: litl ka'lekfan tu a frend, an ekspa:t in da 
matter of coins; and do you know what? He was 
nice tar av kains: and du: ju: non hwat? hi: was 
able to pick out two false pieces among the coins, and 
eibl ta pik aut tu: fa:ls pi:sis a'mAy da kains, and 
they were the ones which that lying old man, the former 
dei wa: da waiis hwitf deet laiiy ould meen, da fa:mar 
owner of the shop, had sold me. No, you can’t trust 
ounar av da jap , had sould mi:. non, ju: ka:nt tiwst 
The Fiftieth (50th) Chapter. 
either of those men. Now, of course, I’ve learned some 
aidar bv douz men. nan, av ko:s, aiv la.nd sahi 
of the ways to judge of the quality of a coin; when you 
dv da weiz td d$Ad$ av da kwoliti av a koin; hwen ju: 
drop it, for instance, you can often hear if it’s false or 
dr Dp it, far instans, ju: kan o:fn hiar if its fo:ls a 
not.” “But I don’t understand their motives for doing motive = reason 
not” “bat ai dount Atida'stcend dea moutivz fa du:iy 
things like that,” Storm said. “Even if they do earn a 
fiyz laik dcet” sto:m sed. (C i:van if dei du: am a 
few shillings more one day by saying something which 
fju: filiyz mo: ivah dei bai seiiy sAtnpiy hwitf 
isn’t correct, they’re sure to make their customers angry, correct = right 
iznt ka'rekt, dea fua ta meik dea kAstamaz cerjgri, 
so that they never return. Such business methods 
sou dat dei neva ri'tarn. sAtf biznis mepadz 
can’t be very good.” “No, of course not,” Marshall 
ka:nt bi: veri gud ” (< nou, av ko:s not ” ma:fal 
replied. “I say, let’s go and have some fun with him! 
ri [ plaid. “ai sei, lets gou and hcev sarn /am wid him! 
He doesn’t know me; I might go in and try to make 
hi: dAznt non mi:; ai mait gou in and trai ta meik 
him buy back those stamps. Shall we?” “There’s 
him bai bcek douz stcemps. feel wi:?” “daz 
no keeping you down,” Storm answered with a laugh; 
nou ki:piy ju: daun,” storm a.nsad wid a la:f; 
“but how will you do it? 5 
“bat hau wU ju: du: it? 
“I don’t quite know, yet. 
“ai dount kzvait nou , jet. 
a man of property 
= a rich man 
perfect = which 
cannot be better 
admire = look 
up to 
Persons like our kind friend with the false stamps 
pdisnz laik and kaind frend wid dd fo:ls stamps 
usually have great respect for people with money, so 
ju.^udli hdv yrcit ris'pckt fd pi:pl wid m\ni, sou 
perhaps I might tell him a story about being a young 
pd'haps ai wait tel him d stj:ri d'baut bi:iy d jAy 
man of property, who has become interested in stamps 
man dv prjpdti, hu: hdz bi'kAin intristid in stamps 
and wants to buy a whole collection at once. What 
dnd wmts td bai d houl kd'lekfdn dt zvahs. hwot 
do you think of that?” Marshall asked. “The plan 
du: ju: piyk dv dat?” ma:fdl a:skt. “dd plan 
seems perfect to me,” Storm answered. “I can find 
si:mz pd'.fikt td mi:” std:m arnsdd. “ai kdn faind 
nothing wrong with it, if you think you can perform 
tiApiy rjy wid it, if ju: piyk ju: kdn pd'fo.ni 
your part of the fun. I must say that I admire your 
jj: pa:t dv dd fAti. ai ntAst sei ddt ai dd'maid jj: 
courage. I’m sure I couldn’t go through with it without 
kArid 3. aim fud ai kudnt gou pru: wid it wid'ant 
showing by some word or act that I was making fun 
jouiy bai sahi wdul o:r akt ddt ai wdz meikiy fAn 
of him.” “Well, to tell the truth,” Marshall replied, 
dv him” “wel , td tel dd tru:p” ma:jol riplaid, 
“I’m a little afraid, myself. And I have to support my 
“aim d litl o'freid, mai'self. dnd ai hav td so'po:t mai 
self-respect by telling myself that our motives in this 
'sclfris'pekt bai teliy mai'self dot aud moutivz in dis 
The Fiftieth (50th) Chapter. 
at the shop. You wait outside for me!” 
dt da fap. ju: weit 'aut'said fa: mi :! 33 
A quarter of an hour later Marshall appeared again at 
a kzva.tar av an aua leita ma.fal a'piad a'gein at 
the door of the shop. He was smiling all over his face, 
da da:r av da fap. hi: waz smailirj a:l ouva hiz feis, 
so Storm could understand that everything had gone 
sou sta:m kad .\nda'stcend dat evripiy had gan 
well. As soon as they had turned round the corner, 
wel. az sum az del had tamd round da ka:na, 
Marshall had to stop and have a good laugh, before 
tna.'fal heed ta stap and hcev a gud la:f, bi'fa: 
he was able to tell Storm what had taken place in 
hi: waz cibl ta tel sta:m hwat had teikn pleis in 
the shop. 
da fap. 
“First,” Marshall said, “I told him my name was 
(i fa:st , 33 ma:fal sed, “ai tould him mai neim waz 
Reginald Willoughby, just returned from India, where 
red^inald zvilabi , d^Ast ri'tamd fram indja, hwear 
I had been hunting lions, or whatever it is one hunts 
ai had bi:n JiAntirj laianz, a: hwat'evar it iz wah hAnts 
in India. There are lions in India, aren’t there? This llOll 1 
in indja. dear a: laianz in indja, amt deaf dis 
seemed to make a deep impression upon him, especially 
si:md ta meik a di:p im'prefan a'pan him, is'pefali 
when I began speaking about the stamp-collection that 
hwen ai bi'gcen spi:kit) a'baut dd 'stcempka'lekfan ddt 
I was planning to start. His behaviour at once showed 
aizvaz plcenitj ta sta:t . his bi'heivja at zvahs fond 
great respect, and he gave me to understand that he 
greit ris'pekt, and hi: geiv mi: tu Anda'stcend dat hi: 
would think it a privilege to be allowed to help me 
zvad pifjk it a privilid 3 ta bi: a'laud ta help mi: 
to find the very best stamps for my collection. I told 
ta faind da veri best stcemps fa mai ka'lekfan. ai tould 
him all about ‘my life in India’: that I had visited the 
him o:l a'baut i mai Jaif in indja 9 : dat ai had vizitid da 
court of a famous prince in India and had been invited 
ka:t av a feimas prins in indja and had bi:n in'vaitid 
to stay at his palace, where I lived like a prince among 
ta stei at hiz pcelis, hzvear ai livd laik a prins a'mAy 
It was perfectly clear from my words and behaviour 
it zvaz pa:fiktli klia fram mai zva:dz and bi'heivja 
that I wasn’t very clever and knew nothing at all about 
dat ai zvaznt veri kleva and nju: nApitj at a:l a'baut 
stamps. He brought out all kinds of stamps, and when 
stcemps. hi: bra:t aut a:l kaindz av stcemps, and hzven 
he saw that I showed an interest in those from India, 
hi: sa: dat ai joud an intrist in douz fram indja, 
he gave me a lot of information about them, only half 
hi: geiv mi: a lat av infa'meifan a'baut dam, ounli ha:f 
The Fiftieth (50th) Chapter. 
of which was correct; the rest had very little to do 
av hwitj was ka'rekt; da rest had veri lit! ta du: 
with the truth. I ‘believed’ every word, of course, 
wid 3a tru:p. ai *bili:vd 9 evri wa:d, av ko:s, 
and I could see from the look in his eyes that he 
and ai kad si: frarn da Ink in his ais dat hi: 
thought he was going to get a nice bit of good English 
po:t hi: was gouxvj ta get a nais bit av gud iyglif 
money out of me. The more foolish my words were, 
niAni ant av mi:. da mo: fu:lij mai wa:ds wa:, 
and the more foolish things I did, the more he seemed 
and da mo: fu:lij pirjz ai did, da mo: hi: si:md 
to admire and respect me. I tell you, I had such trouble 
tu ad'maiar and ris'pckt mi:, ai tel ju:, ai had SAtf trAbl 
trying not to laugh that I was quite weak. 
traiiy not ta la:f dat ai was kwait wi:k. 
weak = not strong 
“At last I thought the right time had come to take out 
i( 3t la:st ai po:t da rait taim had kAm ta teik aut 
your false stamps. ‘Look here!’ I said; Tve just bought 
jo: fo:ls stamps. *luk hio!’ ai sed; ( aiv d^ASt bo:t 
some very fine stamps from a friend, but as you have 
sam veri fain stcemps fram a frend, bat cez ju: hav 
made me much more interested in Indian stamps now, 
meid mi: niAtf mo:r intristid in indjan stamps nau, 
Indian = from 
India 
perhaps you would like to buy these?’ He grew a bit 
pa 1 haps ju: wad laik ta bai di:sf y hi: gru: a bit 
cool at that, so I started for the door, as if I wanted to 
ku:l at dat, sou ai sta:tid fa da do:, as if ai wontid ta 
drop the whole matter. At once, his humour changed, 
drop do houl meet a. of 1 vxns, hie hjicma tfehidyl, 
and he was all smiles again and doing his best to keep 
and hi: waz o:l smoile a'gein and du:iy hie best ta ki:p 
an important customer. ‘Hem, how much have you paid 
an im'po.tant k.Astama. ( hm. hnu m\tf hov ju: peid 
for them?’ he asked, opening the drawer where he kept 
fo: dam? y hi: a:skt, oupaniy da dro:a hwra hi: kept 
his money, as if he w r as going to pay for them at once. 
hie THAni, az if hi: wae gouiij ta Pei fo: daw at w.uis. 
‘A pound, 5 I replied, thinking it better to add something 
< a pound, y ai ri'plaid, piykiy it beta tu ced sxmpiy 
quite (here) = 
I agree 
to the amount. ‘Well, I can’t give you as much as that, 
ta di a'mount. 'wcl, ai ka:nt giv ju: ae mxtf ae deet, 
of course, 5 he answered; ‘I have to sell them again, you 
av ko:s, y hi: a:nsad; c ai hcev ta sel dam a'gein, ju: 
know. 5 ‘Oh, quite, 5 I said; ‘I understand that perfectly. 
nou y ‘ ou, kzvait / ai sed: l ai Aiida'stcrnd dcct pa:fiktli. 
Shall we say fifteen shillings? That will satisfy us both. 5 
jal wi: sei fifti:n filiye? deet uni scetisfai as bouf. y 
He had a hard time pulling himself together, poor 
hi: had a ha:d taim puliy him'self ta'geda, pua 
false stamps he himself had sold! And he couldn’t very 
fo:ls stcemps hi: him'self had sould! and hi: kudnt veri 
well say anything, because I might find out that it was 
wel sei enipiy , bi'koe ai mait faind aut dat it waz 
The Fiftieth (50th) Chapter. 
he who had sold them. I was having the time of my 
hi: hn: had sould dam. ai waz haviy da taint av mai 
life, I tell you. 
laif, ai tel ju:. 
“Well, he tried to get out of paying any money to me, 
“wel, hi: traid ta get aut av peiiy eni m\ni ta mi:, 
of course, by suggesting that when I had decided what 
av ka:s, bai sa'd^estiy dat hwen ai had di'saidid hwat 
stamps I wanted, I could pay that amount less. ‘Yes, 
stamps ai wantid, ai kad pei dat a'maunt les. *jes, 
just as you wish,’ I said; ‘that's perfectly all right. 
dfy\st az ju: wij y ai sed; c dats pa:fiktli o:l rait. 
I can pay for everything when I come for the stamps, 
ai kan pei far evripiy hwen ai k\m fa da stamps, 
then. You see, I should like you to put them in the 
den. ju: si:, ai fad laik ju: ta put dam in da 
right order for me, put them in a book, you know, and 
rait a:da fa: mi:, put dam in a buk, ju: non, and 
all that. You do that, too, don't you?’ ‘Yes, it will cost 
a:l dat. ju: du: dat, tu:, dount ju :? 9 l jes, it wil hast 
a bit extra, of course,’ he answered. ‘Of course!’ 
a bit ekstra, av ka:s, y hi: a.nsad. € av ka:s! y 
I replied. 
ai ri'plaid. 
“We looked at the stamps again, and I told him some 
“wi: lukt at da stamps a'gein, and ai tould him sam 
more ‘facts’ about myself: I had returned to look after 
ma: *fakts y a l baut mai'self: ai had ritarnd ta luk a:fta 
property = that 
which is owned 
sense = under¬ 
standing 
He drank it all up 
= he believed all 
of it. 
some property in Scotland that had become mine after 
sam propati in skit fond dat had bi'k\m main a:ftar 
an uncle. To be sure, it was very strange for me to 
an Aykl. ta bi: fua, it was veri streind 3 fa mi: ta 
be back in England after having lived for more than 
bi: bcek in iygland a:fta hceviy livd fa mo: dan 
a year at the court of an Indian prince. Out there, 
a jia at da ko:t av an indjan prins. aut dea, 
there had been five men just to look after the rooms 
dea had bi:n faiv men d$ASt ta Ink a:fta da ru:ms 
and the clothes of each guest at the palace, and to see 
and da klouds av i:tf gest at da pads, and ta si: 
that their masters had everything they wanted. But 
dat dea ma.stas had evripiy dei ivonfid. bat 
the housemaids did as they wanted to, etc. 
da hausmeids did as dei wontid tn, it'setra. 
“You should have heard me, Storm! One would think 
“ju: fad hav ha:d mi:, sto:m! wah wad piyk 
that any one with just the usual amount of common 
dat eni wah wid d^Ast da ju:$ual a x maunt av koman 
sense would be able to see through my foolish behaviour 
sens wad bi: eibl ta si: pru: mai fu:lif bi'heivja 
and my stories. But not he! He drank it all up! 
and mai storris. bat not hi:! hi: drayk it o:l Ap! 
“When I had ‘chosen’ a lot of expensive stamps and was 
l( hwen ai had ‘ tjousn 9 a lot av iks'pensiv stamps and was 
The Fiftieth (50th) Chapter. 
going to leave, I ‘discovered’ that I had very little 
gouty ta li:v, ai 'dis'kAvad ’ dat ai had vert litl 
money in my pocket, and said that as this was the case, 
m.\ni in mai pakit, and sed dat az dis waz da keis, 
perhaps it was just as well if he paid the fifteen shillings 
pa'haps it waz d$Ast az ivel if hi: peid da fifti:n jilirjz 
now. He had to do it, of course, and here’s the money!” 
nau . hi: had ta du: it, av ka:s, and hiaz da mAni!” 
“Nice work, Marshall, although a bit thick!” Storm 
“nais wa:k, ma:fal, a:l'dou a bit pik!” sta:m 
was able to say at last, when he had stopped laughing. 
waz eibl ta sei at la.st, hwen hi: had stapt la:firj. 
“I shouldn’t have been able to perform an act like that. 
“ai fudnt hav bi:n eibl ta pa'fa.m an akt laik dat. 
I’m sorry I couldn’t be there myself. He must have 
aim sari at kudnt bi: dea mai'self. hi: mast hav 
very little common sense to believe a story like that. 
veri litl kaman sens ta bi'li.v a sta:ri laik dat. 
But no doubt he will be brought to his senses again 
bat nou daut hi: wil bi: bra:t ta hiz sensiz a'gein 
in a few days, when no Reginald Willoughby appears 
in a fju: deiz, hwen nou redynald wilabi a'piaz 
to buy his Indian stamps, and then he will begin to 
ta bai hiz indjan stamps, and den hi: wil bi'gin ta 
put two and two together. Perhaps that will teach him 
put tu: and tu: ta'geda. pa'haps dat ivil ti:tf him 
not to sell false stamps in future.” 
nat ta sel fa:ls stamps in fju:tfa.” 
a bit thick = 
almost too much 
They decided to go home by train, but at the station 
dei cli'saidid ta gou hoam bai trein , bat at da steifan 
a railwayman told them that there would be no trains 
a reikueiman tould dam dat dra wad bi: non treinz 
for the next two hours, as a train had run into an 
fa da nekst tu: auaz, az a trein had yah intu an 
empty carriage at the station and almost smashed it up. 
emti kcerid 3 at da steifan and a.'lmoust sm<Tft it \p. 
It had to be taken away piece by piece, which a lot of 
it heed ta bi: teikn a'wei pi:s bai pi:s, hwitf a ht av 
workers were now doing. The information that the 
wa:kaz wa: nau du:iy. di infa'meifan dat da 
railwayman gave them made them change their plans. 
reikueiman geiv dam meid dam tfeind 3 dea plcenz. 
But they were not sorry, as it was Saturday afternoon 
bat dei wa: nat sari, az it waz seetadi a:fta'nu:n 
and they were just in the humour for doing something 
and dei wa: d$ASt in da hju:ma fa du:iij SAinpitj 
else and not for going home. “I know the best way 
els and nat fa gonirj houm. “ai non da best wei 
of spending the next two hours,” Storm said. “If it 
av spendiy da nekst tu: auaz” sta:m sed. “if it 
isn’t too much trouble, I should like you to go with 
isnt tu: niAtf tr\bl, ai fad laik jit: ta gou wid 
me to a good tailor’s in the suburbs to order a new suit. 
mi: tu a gud teilaz in da SAba:bz tu a:dar a nju: sju:t. 
It seems to me that I must have grown bigger since 
it si.niz ta mi: dat ai mast hav groan biga sins 
The Fiftieth (50th) Chapter. 
I came to England; my clothes don’t fit me any longer. 
ai keim tn iygland; mai kloudz dount fit mi: eni layga. 
Another reason is that the manager has invited me to 
a'nxda ri.zn iz dat da mcenidy haz in'vaitid mi: ta 
dinner at his home in a month’s time, and I should 
dinar at hiz houm in a niAnps taim . and ai fad 
like to look my best that evening, in a really well-fitting 
laik ta Ink mai best deet i:vniy, in a riali zvelfitiy 
suit.” “Oh, I see!” replied Marshall. “You want to 
sju:t” <( ou . ai si:!” ri'plaid ma:fal. “ju: want ta 
shine before the weaker sex in the person of Marion. 
fain bi'fa: da wi:ka seks in da pa:sn av mccrian. 
The old story of the stronger sex trying to make an 
di ould stand av da strayga seks traiiy ta meik an 
impression on the weaker sex! But I thought the 
ini'pre fan an da wi:ka seks! bat ai pa:t da 
dinner was going to be a big affair with all the guests 
dina 7 vaz gouiy ta bi: a big a'fea wid a:l da gests 
in dinner-jackets?” “No, it’s just a small dinner-party 
in dinadyckits?” <c non, its dy\st a sma:l dinapa:ti 
with only the family and two or three guests, so no 
wid ounl-i da fcemili and tu: a pri: gests, sou nou 
stand-up collar will be necessary. I don’t like stiff 
'stand-\p kala wil bi: nesisari. ai dount laik stif 
collars. Not only are they so stiff that I can hardly 
kalaz. nat ounli a: dei sou stif dat ai kan ha.dli 
turn my head, but I feel that my whole body gets stiff 
ta:n mai hed, bat ai fi:l dat mai houl badi gets stif 
sex 
There are two 
sexes, men and 
women. 
s/and-up 
collar 
when I wear one, and I move about like a schoolboy 
hwen ai zvea w\n, and ai mu:v a'baut laik a sku:lbai 
at his first party.” “Yes, I feel like that, too. So 
at hiz fa:st pa:ti” “jcs, ai fill laik dcet, tu:. son 
you're going to a family-dinner at the manager's! I 
jua gouirj tu a fcemilidinar at da mcunid^az! ai 
wonder who put the idea into his head to ask you to 
zvAnda hit: put di ai'dia inta hiz hed tu a:sk ju: ta 
dinner.” “You're all wrong there. It's a privilege 
dina. }> :c juar o:l ratj dca. its a privilid$ 
I’ve earned for myself by the clever work I've per- 
aiv a:nd fa mai'self bai da kleva wa:k aiv pa- 
formed and by my bright conversation!” “Oh, stop 
x fa:md and bai mai brait kanva'seifan!” “ou, stop 
a second, stop a second, my poor friend!” Marshall 
a sekand, stop a sekand, mai pua frend!” ma:Jal 
said. “Rule number one for ‘the perfect gentleman’: 
sed. “ru:l iiAinba w\n fa *da pa:fikt d^cntlman’: 
Never speak well of yourself, but leave that to others!” 
neva spi:k wel av ja:'self, bat li:v dcet tu xdaz!” 
WORDS: 
among 
regard 
false 
judge 
owner 
honour 
truth 
EXERCISE A. 
were not false. Marshall said that the owner of the shop 
The Fiftieth (50th) Chapter. 
at what had happened. Marshall had told the shop¬ 
had said. The owner of the shop was not a man with 
that there would be no trains for the next two hours. 
EXERCISE B. 
Answer these questions with full sentences: 
lie 
former 
trust 
either 
rhotive 
correct 
respect 
respect (verb) 
property 
perfect 
perform 
humour 
laugh 
India 
lion 
behaviour 
privilege 
life 
court 
act 
admire 
master 
sense 
railwayman 
worker 
fit 
sex 
weak 
weaker sex 
stiff 
collar 
event in the history of your country taken place there, or 
most important industry or trade in your part of the 
want any important things in the town to be different 
if you had the authority to decide what was to be 
EXERCISE C. GRAMMAR. 
The words who, whom, whose, which, what, are used 
to ask questions. When used in this way, they are 
called interrogative [inta'rocjativ j pronouns. Here are 
some examples: Who is this man? Whom did you visit? 
Whose book is this? Which of the children is the 
youngest? What are you looking for? 
Who, whom, whose, are only used about persons, as 
may be seen from the examples given. 
What before a noun is used about both things and 
persons. Examples: What meat is this? What man 
would do that? Without a noun following, what is 
used about things only: What do you want? 
Which is used about both persons and things when it 
is followed by ‘of’ and a noun. Examples: Which of 
the days of the week is the first? Which of the girls 
has told you this story? Even if you leave out ‘of’ 
and the noun, you must use which if you ask about 
The Fiftieth (50th) Chapter. 
one or more out of a limited number of persons or 
things. If, for instance, you speak to a person about 
some books that you have both read, you may ask: 
“Which do you like best?” You need not say “Which 
of these books do you like best?”, because the person 
whom you are asking knows what books you are 
speaking of. Here are some more examples where 
you may use which without ‘of’ and a noun. Instead 
of saying “Which of the chairs do you prefer to sit 
in?”, you may say “Which chair do you prefer to sit 
in?” Instead of “Which of the boys did you give the 
money?”, you may ask “Which boy did you give the 
money?” 
Questions: 
Which of the interrogative pronouns are used about 
of the interrogative pronouns are the same words as 
