Chapter Fifty-One (51). 
The Fifty-First (51st) Chapter. 
A LONDON FOG 
It is often said that as soon as two Englishmen have 
it iz a:fn sed bat dz sum dz tu: iyglifman hav 
been introduced to each other and have said, “How 
bi:n intra'dju:st tu i:tf Ada and hav sed, “'hau- 
do you do!” they always begin to talk about the 
dju'du:!” dei a:lwaz bi'gin ta ta:k a'baut da 
weather. This is not because the Englishman cannot 
weba. bis iz not bi'kaz bi iyglifman kcenat 
find any other subject to discuss, but because he wants 
faind eni \ba SAbdykt ta dis'kAS, bat bi'kaz hi: wants 
to get an impression of the person he is talking to, 
ta get an im'prefan av da pa:sn hi: iz ta:kiy tu, 
before he starts discussing other subjects. And with- 
bi'fa: hi: sta:ts dis'kAsiy Aba SAbdykts. and wib- 
out doubt the weather is a good subject for discussion, 
'aut daut da webar iz a gud SAbdykt fa dis'kAfan, 
because there is so much that can be said about it. 
bi'kaz bear iz sou mAtj bat kan bi: sed a'baut it. 
Many people, for example, are surprised, upon coming 
meni pi:pi, far ig'zamtpl, a: sa'praizd, a'pan kAmiy 
to London, to find that the sun shines at all. They 
ta lAndan, ta faind bat ba SAn fainz at a:l. bei 
expect to find either fog or rain. They have heard 
iks'pekt ta faind aiba fag a rein. bei hav ha:d 
The Fifty-First (51st) Chapter. 
so much about the London fog that they are of the 
sou niAtj a'bcut da lAndan fag dat dei a:r av di 
opinion that without a fog London is not London. And 
a 1 pin j an dat wid'aut a fag l And an iz nat l And an. and 
Storm had been of the same opinion. But in London 
sta:n i had bi:n av da seim a 1 pin fan. hat in l And an 
he was told that there would be no fog before the 
hi: waz tould dat dr a wad hi: nou fag bi'fa: di 
autumn. When October came, it happened almost daily 
a:tarn. hwen ak'touha keim, it hcepnd a:lmoust deili 
that he asked Marshall, “What about that fog? Do 
dat hi: a:skt ma.fal, u hwat a'baut dcet fag? du: 
you think I’ll ever see a fog while staying here?” As 
ju: piyk ail eva si: a fag hwail steiiy hia?” az 
a rule Marshall did not answer that question, but one 
a ru:l ma.fal did fiat a:nsa dcet kwestfan, bat wah 
morning at seven o’clock he stood, already dressed, at 
ma:niy at sevn a'klak hi: stud, a:l'redi drest, at 
the side of Storm’s bed saying, “Now get up, young 
da said av sta:mz bed seiiy, <( nau get Ap, /a y 
man! As far as I remember it’s you who have such 
mean! az fa:r az ax rVmemba its ju: hu: hcev SAtf 
great belief in getting up early in the morning.” “Yes, 
greit bi'li:f in getiy Ap a:li in da ma:niy” “jes, 
that is so, only my belief isn’t quite so strong when 
dcet iz sou, ounli mai bi'li:f iznt kwait sou stray hwen 
it’s seven o’clock in the morning and I’m still in bed,” 
its sevn a'klak in da ma:niy and aim stil in bed,” 
daily = every day 
have belief in = 
believe in 
Storm said sleepily. “Sorry to have called you at this 
sta:m sed sli:pili. “sori ta hav ka:ld ju: at dis 
early hour, but you’ll no doubt thank me for it and 
a:li * aua, bat ju:l non daut fcerjk mi: far it and 
get out of bed quickly when I tell you that to-day at 
get out av bed kwikli hwen cti tel ju: dat ta'dei at 
normal = usual last we’ve got our normal autumn weather. There’s 
la:st wi:v gat ana na:nial a:tain weda. das 
a thick fog outside, and as far as I can see from our 
a pik fag 'aut'said, and as fa:r as ai ban si: fram ana 
windows, it’s even unusually thick.” 
windous, its i:van An'ju:^uali pik. 3> 
Storm at once jumped out of bed. “What? A fog? 
sta:m at w\ns d^Ampt aut av bed. “hwat? a fagf 
You don’t say so!” He ran to the window to see for 
ju: dount sex sou !" hi: rcen ta da zvindou ta si: fa 
himself and then turned to Marshall, saying, “You’re 
him'self and den ta:nd ta ma:fal, seiiij, (C jua 
quite right! Well, the London fog does exist, then.” 
kwait rait! wel, da l And an fag dAS ig'sist, den” 
Marshall: “Yes, in fact it has come about a month 
ma:fal: Ci jes, in fcekt it has kAin a'baut a mAnp 
earlier than usual, and, of course, we are not very 
a:lva dan ju:^ual, and, av ka:s, wi: a: nat veri 
pleased. Normally fogs come in November.” 
pli.sd. na:mali fags kAin in nouvemba” 
An hour later Storm was sitting with the Marshalls 
an ana leita sta:m was sitiy wid da n\a:jals 
The Fifty-First (51st) Chapter. 
round the breakfast table. The light in the room was 
raund da brekfast teibl. da lait in da ru:m was 
on, because it was as dark as night outside. Storm: 
an, bi'kas it was as da:k as nait 'aut'said. sta:m: 
to be light at this time of the day.” Mrs. Marshall: 
ta bi: lait at dis taim av da dei” misis ma:fal: 
“Yes, it’s extremely dark, but the fog is really quite 
“jes, its iks'tri:mli da:k, bat da fag is ridli kwait 
unusually thick.” Mr. Marshall: “I am glad to say 
a n'ju:$uali pik . 33 mista ma:jal: “ai am glced ta sei 
that as a rule it’s not so thick. Sometimes there’s a 
dat as a ru:l its nat sou pik. sxmtaims das a 
mist early in the morning. A mist is not so thick as 
mist a:li in da ma:nhj. a mist is nat sou pik as 
mist = thin fog 
a fog. You will also find mists and fogs in the country. 
a fag. ju: mil a.lsou faind mists and fags in da kAntri. 
The mist is white and clean. This cannot always be 
da mist is hwait and klirn. dis kcenat a:lwas bi: 
said of the fog, which may be extremely dirty in towns 
sed av da fag, hwitf mei bi: iks'tri:mli da:ti in tauhs 
with many factories. While discussing the subject of 
wid meni fcektaris. hwail dis'kAsiy da SAbdykt av 
fag and mist, ai.. ” {C aim a'freid dat sta:m and ai mast 
leave now,” Marshall interrupted his father. “It will 
li:v nan , 33 ma:fal inta'rAptid his fa:da. (( it wil 
take us more time to reach the office to-day on account 
teik aj mo: taim to ,ri:tf di of is ta'dei on a'kaunt 
of the fog.” “All right, my boy, but you interrupted 
dv da fog” “o:l rait, mai boi, bat ju: inta'rAptid 
me in telling a little story. You shall have it before 
mi: in teliy a litl sto.ri. ju: fal hav it bi'fo: 
you leave.” Marshall: “Well, who hasn’t got time to 
ju: li:v” ma:fal: “zvel, hit: haznt got taim ta 
dad = father listen to a good story? Go on, dad!” 
lisn tu a gud sto:ri? gou on , dad!” 
Mr. Marshall: “A man that was very drunk, having 
mist a ma:jal: “a man dat zvaz veri dr\yk, haviy 
spent the whole evening drinking beer, called a taxi to 
spent da houl i:vniy driykiy bid, ko:ld a taksi ta 
take him home. There was a thick fog, and the taxi 
teik him houm . dea zvaz a pik fog, and da taksi 
driver said that he couldn’t possibly find his way to 
draiva sed dat hi: kudnt posabli faind hiz zvei ta 
the suburb in which the man lived. However, the man 
da s\ba:b in hzvitf da man livd. hau x eva, da man 
offered him a pound if he would try; but the driver 
of ad him a paund if hi: zvad trai; bat da draiva 
would not accept the offer. The man, who was so 
zvad not ak'sept di of a. da man, hu: zvaz sou 
drunk that he was quite unable to get on a bus or a 
drAyk dat hi: zvaz kzvait 'An'eibl ta get on a bAs o:r a 
tram, increased his offer to five pounds. The driver 
tram, in'kri:st hiz of a ta faiv paundz . da draivar 
The Fifty-First (51st) Chapter. 
at last agreed to take him, but said that he must first 
at la:st d'gri:d td teik him, bat sed ddt hi: mast fa:st 
go upstairs for his brother. ‘What do you want your 
gou Apsteas fa hie hr Ada. c hwat du: ju: want ja: 
brother for?’ asked the man. ‘I need a light in front 
hr Ada fa:? y a:skt da man. € ai ni:d a lait in frAtit 
of the taxi/ the driver answered. ‘Oh, you don't have 
dv da taksi y da droivar a.nsad. t ou, ju: dount hcev 
to go and get your brother; I can walk in front with 
ta gou and get ya: hr Ado: ui kan iva.k in fr.xnt wid 
the light myself/ said the man.” 
da lait maPsclf* sed da man.” 
A few minutes later Storm and Marshall were walking 
a fju: mi nits lei to sta:m and ma:fal wa: wa:khj 
towards the Underground station. They could hear 
ta'wo:ds di And aground stcifan. dei had hi a 
different sounds in the middle of the road, but, with 
difrant sounds in do midi ov da roitd, hAt, wid 
the exception of a girl on a bicycle, they could see 
di ik'sepjan ov a go:l an o boisikl, del kad si: 
nothing. A second or two later they could hear the 
nApiy. a sekond a tu: leita dei kad hia da 
sound of a bus moving in the same direction as the 
sound av a 1)as mir.viy in da seim di'rekfan as da 
girl. Suddenly there was a loud noise, and they heard 
ga:l. sAdnli dea was a loud nais, and dei ha:d 
the sound of the bus stopping, and, at the same time, 
da sound av da b.\s stapiy, and, at da seim taim. 
towards = in the 
direction of 
spot = place 
It hurts, it hurt, 
it has hurt 
[halts, ha:t, halt]. 
natural = normal 
the voice of a girl crying for help. They ran to the 
da vais av a ga:l kraiiy fa help. dei rcen ta da 
spot as fast as they could and found the girl lying in 
spat az fa:st az dei kud and found da ga:l laiiy in 
front of the bus, while the bus-driver was getting 
frAnt av da 1)as, hwail da b.xsdraiva waz getiy 
down. The bicycle had been smashed. They could 
daun. da haisikl had bi:n since ft. dei kad 
see that the girl was hurt, for her left knee was wet 
si: dat da ga:l waz ha:t, fa ha: left ni: waz wet 
with blood, which was beginning to run down her 
wid bUd, hwitf waz biginhj ta vau daun ha: 
stocking, making it quite red. “She's very pale, and 
stakiy, meikiy it kwait red. <( fi:z veri peil , and 
as far as I can see, her knee is rather badly hurt,” 
az fa:r az ai kan si:, ha: ni: iz ra:da bcedli ha:t” 
Marshall said to Storm in a low voice. They both 
ma:jal sect ta sta:m in a l on vais. dei boup 
noticed that the natural colour had gone from the girl’s 
noutist dat da ncetjaral kAla had gan frani da ga:lz 
face. “Something must be the matter with her head, 
feis. u SAmpiy mast bi: da meet a wid ha: hed, 
too, for she’s holding her hand to it as if in pain,” 
tic, fa ji:z houldiy ha: hcend tu it az if in pein,” 
Storm said. Marshall now helped the bus-driver to 
sta: m scd. ma:fal nan helpt da bAsdraiva ta 
lift the girl up from the ground, and then he asked 
lift da ga:l a p frani da ground, and den hi: a:skt 
The Fifty-First (51st) Chapter. 
her, “Are you in much pain?” at the same time trying 
ha:, “a: ju: in niAtf pcin?” at da seim taim traiiy 
to stop the blood running down from her knee by tying 
ta stop da bl\d rAniy daun fram ha: ni: bai taiiy 
his handkerchief round her leg. She was doing her 
hiz hceykatfif round ha: leg. ji: waz du.iy ha: 
best to be brave, for she smiled and said in an almost 
best ta hi: breiv, fa fi: smaild and sed in an o:lmoust 
natural voice, “Well, the pain in my head is bad enough; 
ncrtjaral vois, “zvel, da pein in mai hed iz bced fn\f; 
but I shall be glad if it is no worse than that. The bad, worse, worst 
bat ai jal hi: glced if it iz nou wa:s dan dcet. da 
worst thing about it, I think, is that my leg is hurt; I 
wa:st piy a'bout it, ai piyk, iz dat mai leg iz ha:t; ai 
can’t very well walk on it without help.” “Then my 
ka:nt vcri zvel zvo:k on it zvid'aut help” (( den mai 
friend and I will walk with you or take you in a taxi 
frend and ai zvil zvo:k zvid ju: o: teik ju: in a tceksi 
to the nearest doctor and have him look at your knee,” 
ta da niarist dokta and hcev him luk at jo: ni:,” 
Marshall said. “Oh, thank you so much. But it’s 
rna:fal sed. “on, pceyk ju: sou niAtf. bat its 
not necessary to go in a taxi. My own doctor lives 
not nesisari ta gou in a tceksi. mai oun dokta livz 
quite near, and with your help I can easily walk the 
kzvait nia, and zvid jo: help ai kan i:zili zvo:k da 
few steps to his house.” Bus-driver: “I think we had 
fju: steps ta hiz haus.” bAsdraiva: “ai piyk wi: had 
policeman 
better have a policeman look into what has happened, 
held hcev s pa'li:sman luk intd hwat hd2 heepnd, 
too.” Storm: “Then I’ll try to get one, instead of 
tu:” sta:m: “den ail trai ta get w\n , in'sted av 
going with my friend and the young lady.” 
gouiy zvid mai frend and da jAy leidi” 
Marshall and the girl now left, and Storm went for a 
ma:jal and da ga:l nau left, and sta:m went far a 
policeman. And he had only walked five or six steps 
pa'li:sman. and hi: had ounli wa:kt faiv a siks steps 
when suddenly one appeared. Storm told him what 
hwen s\dnli WAn a'piad. sta:m tould him hwot 
he knew about the accident, pointing towards the spot 
hi: nju: a'baut di ceksidant, paintiy ta'wa:dz da spat 
where it had happened. The policeman wrote it all 
hwear it had heepnd. da pa'li'.sman rout it a:l 
down, after which he asked the bus-driver, “How did 
daun, a:fta hwitf hi: a:skt da bAsdraiva, “hau did 
the accident happen?” Bus-driver: “All I can tell 
di ceksidant hcepn?” bAsdraiva: “a:l ai kan tel 
you is that suddenly I saw a girl on a bicycle crossing 
ju: iz dat SAdnli ai sa: a ga:l an a baisikl krasiy 
the street in front of the bus. Before I could stop, 
da stri:t in frAnt av da bAs. bi'fa.r ai kad stap, 
pushed over = the accident had happened. She was pushed over by 
she^feU down^ ^ ceksidant had heepnd. fi: waz puft ouva bai 
the bus, but wasn’t run over, and that, I think, was 
da bAS, bat waznt rAn ouva, and deet, ai piyk, waz 
The Fifty-First (51st) Chapter. 
the only reason why she escaped death.” 
di ounli ri:zn hwai fi: is'keipt dep” 
Policeman: 
pd'liisnidn: 
death = the end 
of life 
“Judging from what you and this young gentleman 
“d^Adyy frdm hwat ju: end dis jAtj d^entlman 
have explained, her life must have been in great 
hav iks'pleind, ha: laif mast hav bi:n in greit 
danger. I wonder if she knew that death was waiting 
deind^a. ai iVAndar if fi: nju: dat dep was weitiy 
just round the corner, so to speak. It seems as if the 
d$Ast raund da ka:na, sou ta spi:k. it si:ms as if da 
young lady must have been thinking of anything but 
jAtj leidi mast hav bi:n piykiy av enipiy bat 
buses coming from behind, when she was crossing the 
bAsis kAiniy fram bi'haind, hwen fi: was krosiy da 
street. But we’ll have to talk to her about all this 
stri:t. bat wi:l hcev ta ta:k ta ha:r a'baut o:l dis 
later in the day or to-morrow.” 
leitar in da dei a: ta'marou” 
The bus-driver now started his bus again, and the 
da bAsdraiva nan sta:tid his bAS a'gein, and da 
policeman, having noticed that Storm was a foreigner, 
pa'li:snian, hceviy noutist dat sta:m was a farina, 
explained in a professional voice, “People ought to 
iks'pleind in a pra'fefanal vais, “pi: pi a:t ta 
know that in a fog like this they’re in danger of being 
nou dat in a fag laik dis dear in deind^ar av bi:iy 
run down every time they cross the street. We have 
rAn daun evri taim dei kras da stri:t. wi: hav 
many bad accidents of different kinds at this time of 
meni bad aksidants av difrant kaindz at dis taim av 
the year. Last autumn, I remember, two buses ran 
da jid. la:st o:tam, ai ri'memba, tu: bAsiz ran 
into each other. Twenty-five people were hurt, five 
intu i:tf Add. twenti'faiv pi:pi wa: ha:t, faiv 
of them so seriously that they did not live, but died 
dv dam sou siariasli dat dei did not liv, bat daid 
before they had reached the hospital. Besides, a fire 
bi'fo: dei had ri:tft da hospitl. bisaidz, a fata 
started in one of the buses so quickly that the driver 
sta:tid in wau av da bAsiz sou kwikli dat da draiva 
It barns, it burnt, had no time to get out and was burnt up together with 
it has burnt 
[ba:ns,b9:nt,ba:nt]. had nou taim ta get aut and waz ba:nt Ap ta'geda wid 
the bus. Not a very pleasant way of meeting one’s 
da bAS. not a veri pleznt wei av mi:tiy WAnz 
who had heard enough of accidents and death, inter- 
hu: had ha:d i } nAf av aksidants and dep, inta- 
rupted, “I’m sorry, but I have to leave now to be in 
'rAptid, (t aim sori, bat ai hav ta li:v nau ta bi: in 
time for my work. Good morning!” And then he 
taim fa mai wa:k. gud mo:nirj!” and den hi: 
hurried to the nearest Underground station. 
h\rid ta da niarist Andagraund steifan. 
While Storm had been talking to the policeman, Mar- 
hwail sto:m had bi:n to:kiy ta da pa'li:sman, ma:- 
The Fifty-First (51st) Chapter. 
shall and the girl had arrived at the doctor’s and had 
jal and da ga:l had a'raivd dt dd doktaz and had 
told him what had happened. “Well, let’s have a look 
tould him hwot had hcepnd. “wel, lets h<ev a luk 
at your knee,” the doctor said, taking away the handker- 
at jo: ni:” da dokta sed, teikiy a'wei da hceyka- 
chief. “I must say it is worse than I thought when 
tfif. “ai mast sei it is wa:s dan ai po:t hwen 
I saw you enter the room.” “The pain in it is much 
ai so: ju: enta da ru:m” “da pein in it is mAtf 
worse now than just after the fall. I hope it isn’t 
wa:s nau dan d$\st a:fta da fo:l. ai houp it isnt 
so badly hurt that an operation will be necessary.” 
sou bcedli ha:t dat an opa'reijan wil bi: nesisari” 
“No, you need not be afraid of that. There’s no 
“nou , ju: ni:d not bi: a'freid av dcet. das nou 
reason to use a knife on it. As to the pain, it’s the 
ri:zn ta ju:s a naif on it . cez ta da pein, its di 
effect of the fall, and it’s always worse when some time 
i'fekt av da fo:l, and its o:lwaz wa:s hwen SAm taim 
has passed. But even if it’s bad, you may be glad that 
has pa:st. bat i:van if its bced, ju: mei bi: glced dat 
no operation is necessary. An operation on the knee 
nou opa'reijan iz nesisari. an opa'reijan on da ni: 
is a very difficult thing and sometimes of no effect at 
iz a veri difikalt piy and SAmtaimz av nou i'fekt at 
all. If the worst comes to the worst, the knee becomes 
o:l. if da wa:st kAmz ta da wa:st, da ni: bi'kAmz 
stiff in such cases. But I’ll give you something which 
stif in SAtj keisiz. bat ail giv ju: SAmpiy hwitf 
will take the pain away very quickly.” And indeed, 
wil teik da pein a'wei veri kwikli” and in'di:d, 
what the doctor gave her had a very rapid effect, for 
hwot da dokta geiv ha: heed a veri rcepid i'fekt, far 
in a few minutes the girl felt no pain at all. 
in a fju: minits da ga:l felt nou pein at o:l. 
Doctor: “Now take a taxi home and go to bed. Til 
dokta: “mu teik a tceksi houm and gou ta bed. ail 
come to-morrow and see how you are.” The girl: 
kArn ta'morou and si: hau ju: a:” da ga:l: 
“Won’t that be too much trouble to take for such a 
“wount deet bi: tu: mAtf trAbl ta teik fa SAtf a 
small matter as my bad knee?” Doctor: “Not at all! 
smo:l mcetar az mai bced ni:?” dokta: “not at o:l! 
I’m paying daily visits to a young man not far from 
aim peiitj deili vizits tu a Jaij mcen not fa: from 
where you live.”. 
hwea ju: liv” 
When Marshall had got a taxi for the girl and taken 
hwen ma:fal had got a tceksi fa da ga:l and teikn 
leave of her, he started for the office by bus. When 
li:v av ha:, hi: sta:tid fa di of is bai bAS. hwen 
he got off again, he suddenly saw Storm walking in 
hi: got o:f a'gein, hi: SAdnli so: sto:m wo:kiy in 
front of him. They walked together the rest of the 
frAnt av him. dei ivo:kt ta'geda da rest av da 
The Fifty-First (51st) Chapter. 
way to the office, telling each other what had happened 
wei to di of is, telirj i:tj Ado hwot had hoepnd 
since they left the place of the accident. Marshall 
sins dei left dd pleis dv di ceksiddnt. ma:fel 
noticed that Storm used his handkerchief very often. 
noutist ddt sto:m ju:zd hiz hcetjketfif veri o:fn. 
“You seem to have got a rather bad cold.” Storm: 
“ju: si:m td hdv got d ra:de bced kould” sto:m: 
“Yes, I got it last night, because I didn’t put on my 
“jes, ai got it la:st nait, bikoz ai didnt put on mai 
coat when I went out for a walk. And the fog today 
kout hwen ai went aut fdr d wo:k. dnd dd fog te x dei 
has had a bad effect on my lungs and throat. Since 
hdz hoed o bced i'fekt on mai Iayjz dnd prout. sins 
you left me, I’ve been sneezing on account of the dirty 
ju: left mi:, aiv bi:n sni:zitj on e'kaunt ov dd dd:ti 
air passing through my nose, and I’ve been coughing, 
€d pa: sir) pru: mai nouz, dnd aiv bi:n kofitj, 
too, because of the fog that has got into my mouth 
tu:, bi'koz dv dd fog ddt hdz got into mai maup 
and my throat. It’s extremely unpleasant to know that 
ond mai prout. its iks l tri:mli An x pleznt to nou dot 
every time you take a breath, your lungs get filled with 
evri taim ju: teik o brep, jo: Iaijz get fild wid 
dirty yellow fog. I shall be glad when this fog lifts 
do :ti jelou fog. ai fel bi: glced hwen dis fog lifts 
so that I can once more take a breath of real fresh 
sou dot ai ken WAns mo: teik e brep ov riel fref 
air.” Marshall: “We’re used to it ourselves, but it’s only 
ea” ma:jal: “wid ju:st tu it aua'selvz, bdt its ounli 
natural that you should find it very unpleasant. I’m 
natjaral ddt ju: fad faind it veri An'pleznt. aim 
extremely sorry that your cold is so bad that you must 
iks'tri:mli sari ddt jo: kould iz sou bad ddt ju: mast 
spend most of your time with your handkerchief to 
spend moust av jo: taim wid- jo: haykatjif ta 
your face, sneezing or coughing.” 
jo: feis, sni:ziy o: kofiy” 
accident that happened to the girl makes me think of 
aksidant dat hapnd ta da ga:l meiks mi: piyk av 
another accident because of bad weather. It was one 
a'nAdar aksidant bi'koz av bad weda. it waz wah 
evening this summer when Mr. Miller, my friends, and 
i.vniy dis SAma hwen mist a mila, mai jrendz, and 
I were returning from a trip into the country. The 
ai wa: ri'ta:niy fram a trip inta da kAntri. da 
wind began to blow and the rain to fall, and there 
wind bigan ta blou and da rein ta fo:l, and dea 
was a real storm. When the storm had lasted for some 
waz a rial sto:m. hwen da sto:m had la:stid fa SAm 
minutes, lightning was seen again and again, each time 
minits, laitniy waz si:n a'gein and a'gein, i:tf taim 
making the sky as bright as day. At the same time 
meikiy da skai az brait az dei. at da seim taim 
The Fifty-First (Slst) Chapter. 
the sound of thunder came nearer and nearer, and at 
da saund av pAnda keim niara and niara, and at 
last it was so loud that we could hardly hear ourselves 
la:st it was sou laud dat wi: kad Jw:dli hiar aua'selvz 
speaking. We hurried to the nearest farmhouse and 
spi:kiy. wi: h\rid ta da niarist fa:mhaus and 
stayed there as long as the thunderstorm lasted. The 
steid dea as by as da pAndasto:m la:stid. da 
people at the farm got very nervous when they saw 
pi:pl dt da fa:m got veri na:vas hwen dei so: 
the lightning and heard the thunder, because their maid 
da laitniy and ha:d da pAnda, bi'kas dea meid 
was out in it. It was not without reason that they 
was aut in it. it waz not wid'aut ri:sn dat dei 
were nervous, for when the thunderstorm had passed, 
wa: na:vas, fa hwen da pAndasta:m had pa:st, 
she was found in a field, struck by lightning and badly 
fi: was faund in a fi:ld, strAk bai laitnirj and bccdli 
burnt. I’m glad to say that she didn’t die, but she had 
ba:nt. aim glced ta sei dat fi: didnt dai, bat fi: heed 
to stay in bed for several months. Only the other day 
ta stci in bed fa sevral uiAnps. ounli di Ada dei 
I heard that she’s all right again now.” 
ai ha:d dat ji:s a:l rait a'gein nau” 
EXERCISE A. 
WORDS: 
subject 
belief 
normal 
burn 
burnt 
mist 
interrupt 
drunk 
towards 
sound 
spot 
knee 
hurt 
blood 
natural 
pain 
worse 
worst 
doctor 
policeman 
accident 
danger 
death 
die 
died 
operation 
effect 
because he had got too much to drink. When Marshall 
beginning to run down her stocking. The colour of her 
that in her head. Marshall went with the girl to the 
the wind blows hard and the rain falls heavily, it is 
fall 
breath 
throat 
sneeze 
cough 
storm 
lightning 
thunderstorm 
thunder 
dad 
told Marshall about a maid who had been struck by 
EXERCISE B. 
In chapter 48, Exercise D, there was a letter from Storm 
to Wood. Please answer this letter as if you were Wood. 
The Fifty-First (51st) Chapter 
Build a story round some event that Wood wants to 
tell Storm about, and make use of the following words: 
EXERCISE C. GRAMMAR. 
There are some words which we call the indefinite 
pronouns. They are words like no, none, some, any, 
every, each. 
No is used as an adjective. Example: I have no money. 
If we want to use it as a noun, we do not say no, but 
none. Example: I have money, but you have none. 
When used as a noun about persons, no becomes nobody 
or no one, and when used about things it often becomes 
nothing. Examples: Nobody (no one) was at home. 
There was nothing I could do for him. Just the same 
is the case with the pronouns some, any, every. When 
used as nouns about persons, they have the forms some¬ 
body (some one), anybody (any one), everybody (every 
one), and when used as nouns about things their forms 
are something, anything, everything. 
There is a difference in the use of any and some, 
although the two words mean almost the same thing. 
Any (anything, anybody) is especially found after ‘if’ 
and ‘whether*, in questions, and in sentences with ‘not*. 
Some (somebody, something) is used in other sentences. 
Here are some examples: If I had any cigars, I would 
give you some of them. Has anybody been here? If 
anybody has been here, tell me. She has not been able 
to find anything. Have you got any money? No, I 
have not got any money; have you? Yes, I have got 
some money. 
Each is used to say something about every one of a 
number of persons or things. Every is used to say some¬ 
thing about all of a number of persons or things. Ex¬ 
amples: He read a new book each day of the week he 
stayed at our house. He goes to school every day. Each 
of the three sisters got a new frock for Christmas. 
Everybody has to learn to read and write. 
Questions: 
words are added to some of the indefinite pronouns 
you give two examples of the use of ‘some’ and ‘any 5 ? 
