Chapter Fifty-Two (52). 
The Fifty-Second (52nd) Chapter. 
ENGLISH HOLIDAYS 
“It's been a long day to-day,” Storm said, as he and 
“its bi:n a lay dei ta'dei” sto:m sed, az hi: and 
Marshall left the office late one evening at the 
ma.fal left di of is leit WAn i:vniy at da 
beginning of December, “and a hard week, too; I'm 
biginiy av dVsemba, “and a ha:d wi:k, tu:; aim 
really feeling quite tired to-night. I wish I could 
riali fi:liy kwait taiad ta'nait. ai wif ai kad 
take a few days off from work. Two or three days' 
teik a fju: deiz o:f fram wa:k. tu: a pri: deiz 
complete rest, with nothing to do but read the papers 
kam x pli:t rest, wid ha piy ta du: bat ri:d da peipaz 
and go for a walk now and then, is just what I need; 
an gou far a wa:k nau an den, iz d^ASt hwot ai ni:d; 
my head feels quite empty. Are there any holidays 
mai hed fi:lz kwait emti. a: dear eni halidiz 
between now and Christmas, I wonder?” “No, there 
bi'twi:n nau an krismas, ai WAnde?” “nou, dear 
aren't any till Christmas,” Marshall replied, “so you'll 
a:nt eni til krismas” ma:fal ri'plaid, “sou ju:l 
have to wait until then. It’s a general rule at the 
hcev ta weit Aritil den. its a d^enaral ru:l at di 
office that nobody asks for days off during December, 
of is dat noubadi a:sks fa deiz o:f djuariy disemba, 
H/l 
because we’re always so busy during the weeks before 
bi'kaz wiar a:lwaz sou bizi djuariy da wi:ks bi'fa: 
Christmas. But I must say that generally December 
krismas. bat ai mast set dat d^enarali di'sembar 
is not so busy as this year, so I’m looking forward to 
: z not sou bizi az dis jia, sou aim lukirj fa:wad ta 
the Christmas holidays myself. We always have such 
da krismas halidiz mai'self. wi: a:lwaz hcev SAtj 
a good time at Christmas; we make it a family affair, 
a gud taim at krismas; wi: meik it a fcemili a'fea, 
you know. My sister will be there for dinner on 
ju: nou. mai sista wil bi: dea fa dinar an 
Christmas Day, with her husband and her baby. It’s 
krismas dei, wid ha: hAzband an ha: beibi. its 
a very long time since I saw them, and I’m looking 
a veri lay taim sins ai sa: dam, and aim lukiy 
forward to spending some time with them again, and 
fa.wad ta spendiy sam taim wid dam a'gein, an 
to having two whole days off from work.” “Only 
ta hceviy tu: houl deiz a:f fram wa:k” ec ounli 
two?” Storm asked. “In my country we have two 
tu:? 33 sta:m a:skt. “in mai kAntri wi: hcev tu: 
and a half, as all offices and shops generally close 
and a ha:f, az a:l afisiz an faps d^enarali klouz 
about twelve o’clock on the 24th.” “No, we keep 
a l baut twelv a'klak an da twenti'fa:p. 3> “nou, wi: ki:p 
the usual closing hours on the day before Christmas,” 
da ju:$ual klouziy auaz an da dei bi'fa: krismas, 33 
The Fifty-Second (52nd) Chapter. 
Marshall replied. “The shops and streets will be full 
ma:jdl ri'plaid. “da japs an stri:ts wil bi: ful 
of people late in the afternoon. In front of the shop 
dv pi:pl leit in di a:fta'nu:n. in frAnt av da jap 
windows there will be crowds of people looking at the 
windouz dea wil bi: kraudz av pi:pl lukiy at da 
different things shown in the windows. Everybody 
difrant piyz foun in da windouz. evribodi 
will want to see as much as possible, to help them to 
wil want ta si: az mAtf az pasabl, ta help dam ta 
make the difficult last minute decisions about Christmas 
meik da difikalt la:st minit di'si^anz a'baut krismas 
presents for Uncle Fred or Aunt Jane. 
preznts far Atjkl fred a:r a:nt d^ein. 
“There will be children crying because they can’t see 
“dea wil bi: tjildran kraiiy bi'kaz dei ka:nt si: 
anything, and mothers pushing them forward through 
enipiy, an MAdaz pujirj dam fa:wad pru: 
the crowd, so that the little ones may get a chance to 
da kraud, sou dat da litl WAnz mei get a tja.ns ta 
look at the fine things in the windows, too. And 
luk at da fain piyz in da windouz, tu:. and 
everybody will be having a lovely time! I’m sorry 
evribodi wil bi: hceviy a IavU taim! aim sari 
Day and Boxing Day.” “Boxing Day!' What a 
dei an boksiy dei. 33 “boksiy dei! hwot a 
14/2 
Christmas box = 
Christmas present 
He rises, he rose, 
he has risen [raiziz, 
rouz, rizn ]. 
object = thing 
strange name!” Storm said. “Yes, but easy to explain,” 
streind 3 neim!” sto:m sed. “jes, bat i:zi tu iks'plein ,” 
Marshall replied. “You see, on the 26th of 
ma:Jal ri plaid. “ju: si:, on da twentisiksp av 
December the postman, the milkman f etc., used to 
di'semba da poustman, da milkman, it'setra, ju:st ta 
come round to all the houses and get their ‘Christmas 
k\m raund tu o:l da hauziz an get dea € krismas 
boxes’. They still come, but nowadays the presents 
boksiz \ dei stil k\m, bat nauadeiz da preznts 
no longer consist of real boxes with things in them, 
nou hyga karisist av rial boksiz wid pirjz in dam, 
but instead they usually consist of a small amount 
bat in'sted dei ju.^uali kan'sist av a smo:l a 1 mount 
of money.” “I see! Yes, that explains it, of course,” 
av m\ni“ai si:! jes, dcet iks x pleinz it, av ko:s,” 
Storm answered. 
sto:m a: ns ad. 
Storm and Marshall had reached their bus now, and 
sto:m and ma:fal had ri:t/t dea b\s nau, and 
as they got on board, two ladies rose from their seats 
az dei got on bo:d, tu: leidiz rouz from dea si:ts 
to get off when the bus stopped next time. One of 
ta get o:f hwen da b\s stopt nekst taim. WAn av 
them dropped her bag when she rose, and all the 
dam dr opt ha: bceg hwen fi: rouz, and o:l da 
different objects in it with which women fill their bags 
difrant obdykts in it wid hwitj wimin fil dea bcegz 
The Fifty-Second (52nd) Chapter. 
fell out on the floor. “Let me help you,” said Storm, 
fel aut an da fh:. “let mi: help jused sta:m, 
and began to pick up keys, coins, and a handkerchief 
and bigoen ta pik Ap ki:z, kainz, and a hay k at f if 
from the floor. “How kind of you! Thank you very 
fram da fla:. “hau kaind av ju:! pceyk ju: veri 
much!” she replied, hurrying after the other lady with 
iHAtf!” ft: ri'plaid, hAriiy a:fta di Ada leidi wid 
her hands full of all sorts of strange objects, which 
ha: hcendz ful av o:l sa:ts av streind 3 abd^ikts, hwitj 
she had no time to put back into the bag. “This is 
fi: had nou taim ta put bcek inta da bceg. “dis iz 
almost too good to be true,” Marshall said, as he made 
a:lmoust tu: gud ta bi: tru:,” mcr.jal sed, az hi: meid 
himself comfortable on the seat. “I mean, to be able 
him 1 self kAinfatabl an da si:t. “ai mi:n, ta bi: eibl 
to sit down all the way home in an almost empty bus. 
ta sit daun a:l da wci houm in an a:lmoust eniti bAS. 
The trips to and from the office generally consist of 
da trips tu an fram di afis d^enarali kan'sist av 
And if I do get a seat now and then, some old lady is 
and if ai du: get a si:t nau an den, SAm ould leidi iz 
sure to enter the bus, so that I have to rise and offer 
fua tu enta da bAS, sou dat ai hcev ta raiz and afar 
it to her.” 
it tu ha :/ 9 
“The perfect gentleman, aren’t you?” Storm said, 
“da pa:fikt d^entlman, a:nt ju:?” sto:m sed, 
smiling. “Talking about gentlemen, I wonder if you 
smailif /. “ta:kirj a'baut d^entlman, ai WAndar if ju: 
can help me to come to a decision,” he continued, 
kan help mi: td kxm tu d di'si^an,” hi: kan l tinju:d, 
pulling a small object out of his pocket. When Storm 
pulitj d sma:l abdykt aut dv hiz pakit. hwen sta:m 
showed it to him, Marshall saw that it was a very 
joud it tu him, ma:jdl so: ddt it waz d veri 
small book of songs, in fine leather with gold letters 
sma:l buk dv sayz, in fain ledd wid gould letaz 
printed on the back. “I bought it some days ago for 
printid an da bcek. “ai ba:t it saiu deiz a'gou fa 
Marion. But then the thought came to me that perhaps 
mcerian. bat den da pa:t keim ta mi: dat pa'hceps 
she would think it foolish of me to give her a thing 
fi: wad pirjk it fu:lif av mi: ta giv ha:r a piy 
like that, and now I can’t come to a decision whether 
laik dcet, an nau ai ka:nt kAm tu a di'si^an hweda 
to give it to her or not. I wouldn’t like to look foolish 
ta giv it tu ha:r a: nat. ai wudnt laik ta luk fu:lif 
in her eyes.” To his surprise, Marshall seemed to think 
in ha:r aiz” ta hiz sa'praiz, ma:fal si:md ta pirjk 
this very funny. “Excuse me, old man, but I must 
dis veri fAni. “iks'kju:z mi:, ould mcen, bat ai mast 
The Fifty-Second (52nd) Chapter. 
laugh when I see your serious face. Of course you 
la:f hwen ai si: jo: sidrids feis. av ko:s ju: 
can give her the book! I’m really beginning to believe 
kan giv ha: da buk! aim riali bi'giniy ta bi'li:v 
it’s true what my mother says, that your head is filled 
its tru: hwot mai m\da sez, dat ja: hed iz fild 
with thoughts of that young lady.” 
wid po:ts av dat ]\rj leidi / 3 
Just then the bus began moving forward quite suddenly, 
d^ASt den da bAS bi'gcen mu:viy fo:zvad kwait SAdnli, 
so that one of the passengers, a lady, who was ascending 
sou dat wau av da pcesind^az, a leidi, hu: waz a'sendirj 
the stairs to the top of the bus, fell down, happily right 
da steaz ta da top av da bAS, fel daun, hcepili rait 
into the arms of one of the other passengers, so that 
inta di a:mz av wah av di Ada pcesind^az, sou dat 
nothing serious happened. Everybody expected her to 
nApirj siarias hcepnd. evribodi iks'pektid ha: ta 
cry out, as women usually do, for the accident had not 
krai aut, az wimin ju.^uali du:, fa di ceksidant had not 
been without real danger. But as soon as she had got 
bi:n mid'aut rial deind^a. bat az su:n az fi: had got 
on her feet again, she said, to everybody’s surprise, 
on ha: fi:t a'gein, fi: sed, tu evribodiz sa'praiz, 
“Oh, excuse me, I’m so sorry! I’m afraid I wasn’t 
“ou, iks'kju:z mi:, aim sou sori! aim a'freid ai woznt 
very careful. But thank God nothing happened to 
veri keaful. bat pcetjk god nApiy hcepnd ta 
passenger = one 
who travels by 
ship, train, car, or 
bus 
ascend = go up 
14 3 
again. 
a'gein. 
“It's men and women like this lady who have helped 
“its men an wimin laik dis leidi hu: hav helpt 
to make our great British Empire, people who can keep 
ta meik aua greit britij empaia, pi:pi hu: kan ki:p 
their heads cool and think of others even in the face 
dea hedz ku:l an piyk av \daz i:van in da feis 
of danger,” Marshall said. “You British and your 
av deind^a” ma:jal sed. “ju: britij an jo:r 
Empire!” Storm replied. “You must indeed be proud 
empaial 33 sta:m ri'plaid. “ju: mast in'di:d bi: praud 
of it, when a little thing like this can call up the 
av it, hwen a litl pig laik dis kan ko:l Ap da 
thought of it. You even have an Empire Day, a sort 
po:t av it. ju: i:van hcev an empaia dei, a so:t 
of state holiday, I’ve read. I don’t know what date 
av steit holidi, aiv red. ai dount nou hwot deit 
it is, though. Is it soon?” he asked. 
it iz, dou. iz it su:n?” hi: a:skt. 
“No, not until the twenty-fourth of May, the birthday 
“nou, not An 1 til da twenti'fo:p av mei, da ba:pdei 
of Queen Victoria. But we British are not so proud 
av kwi:n vik x to:ria. bat wi: britij a: not sou praud 
as you seem to think,” Marshall answered. “You look 
az ju: si:m ta piyk” ma:jal a.nsad . “ju: luk 
The Fifty-Second (52nd) Chapter. 
as if you don’t believe me,” he continued, seeing the 
az if ju: dount bi'li:v mi:,” hi: kdn'tinju:d, si:iy di 
expression on Storm’s face, “but I can almost prove 
iks'prefdn an sta.mz feis, “bdt ai kdn admoust pru:v 
it to you. We don’t even keep our Empire Day as a 
it tu ju:. wi: dount i:vdn ki:p auor empaid dei dz 3 
real national holiday, as they do in France, for instance, 
rial ncefdndl halidi, dz dei du: in fra:ns, far instans, 
with everybody out in the streets, singing and dancing. 
wid evribadi aut in da stri:ts, siyirj an da:nsiy. 
We just send the children home from school after a little 
wi: d$Ast send da tfildran houm fram sku:l a:ftar a litl 
talk in the morning about the British Empire.” “Well, 
ta:k in da ma.niy a'baut da britif empaia” “wel, 
perhaps you aren’t as bad as I thought,” Storm replied. 
pa'haps ju: a:nt az bad az ai pa:t,” storm rtplaid. 
do you keep the same holidays as we do in my country, 
du: ju: ki:p da seim halidiz az wi: du: in mai kAntri, 
I wonder?” Marshall: “The great Church holidays are 
ai WAndaf” ma:fal: “da greit tfa:tf holidiz a: 
the same, I suppose: Christmas, which the Church tells 
da seim, ai sa'pouz: krismas, hwitj da tfa:tf telz 
us was the time of the birth of Christ, God’s Son. That 
as waz da taim av da ba:p av kraist, gadz SAn. dat 
is to say, there is much discussion between the different 
iz ta sei, daz mAtf dis'kAfan bi'twi:n da difrant 
religions about the true date of His birth. The Roman 
ri'lidynz a'baut da tru: deit av hiz bd:p. da rouman 
Catholic religion tells us it was at Christmas, and most 
kcepalik ri'lid^an telz as it waz at krismas, an moust 
Protestants do the same, while other Protestants say 
pratistants du: da seim, hwail Ada pratistants sei 
they can prove from the Bible that the birth of Christ 
dei kan pru:v fram da baibl bat da ba:p av kraist 
settle = decide 
man (here) = 
all men 
took place in the autumn. I don’t know whether the 
tuk pleis in di a: tarn. ai dount nou hivedo da 
question has been settled, but I do know that few 
kwestfan haz bi:n setld, bat ai du: nou bat fju: 
people at Christmas think of the account in the Bible 
pi:pl at krismas piyk av di a'kaunt in da baibl 
of how Christ was sent from Heaven to live upon this 
av hau kraist waz sent fram hevn ta liv a'pan bis 
earth of ours and teach people about God and God’s 
a:p av auaz an ti:tf pi:pi a l baut gad an gadz 
plans for man. What they think of for the most part 
plcenz fa mcen. hwat dei piyk av fa da moust pa:t 
grave 
is the good time they’re going to have with their friends 
iz da gud taim dea gouiy ta hcev wid dea frendz 
Good Friday, when Christ died, Easter Sunday, when 
gud fraidi, hwen kraist daid, i:sta SAndi, hwen 
He rose from the grave, and Easter Monday.” “Excuse 
hi: rouz fram da greiv, and i:sta m\ndi” (C iks'kju:z 
The Fifty-Second (52nd) Chapter. 
my interrupting you in the middle of your account,” 
mai inta'rAptin ju: in da midi av p:r a'kaunt, 33 
Storm said, “Good Friday, what a strange name for the 
sto:m sed, “gud fraidi, hwat a streind 3 neim fa da 
day on which Christ died!” “Yes, isn’t it?” “What 
del on hwitj kraist daid! 33 “jes, iznt it? 33 “hwot 
about the New Year?” Storm asked. “You didn’t 
a'baut da nju: jia? 33 sta:m a:skt . “ju: didnt 
mention it.” “There’s nothing much to tell about that,” 
menfan it . 33 “daz nApirj mAtf ta tel a'baut dcet, 33 
Marshall answered. “In Scotland they keep the first 
ma:jal a:nsad. “in skatland dei ki:p da fa:st 
of January, but here shops, offices, etc., are all open. 
av d^cenjuari, bat hia Japs, afisiz, it'setra, a:r a:l oupan. 
At the most, we have a party on the 31st of 
at da moust, wi: hav a pa:ti an da pa:ti l fa:st av 
December and dance into the New Year, or go out into 
di'semba an da:ns inta da nju: jia, a: gou aut inta 
the streets at twelve o’clock and say ‘Happy New Year* 
da stri.ts at twelv a'klak an sei ‘hcepi nju: jia 9 
to complete strangers. Well, shall I continue my 
ta kam'pli:t streind^az. wel, jal ai kan'tinju: mai 
account of our holidays and get it over?” “Yes, please 
a'kaunt av aua halidiz an get it ouvaf 33 “jes, pli:z 
do!” Storm replied. “I might as well use this half-hour 
du:! 33 sta:m ri'plaid, “ai mait az wel ju:z dis ha.faua 
to learn something.” “All right! Seven weeks after 
ta la:n SAmpiy. 33 “a:l rait! sevn wi:ks a.ftar 
Easter is Whitsun, consisting of Whit Sunday and Whit 
i:std iz hwitsn, kan'sistitj av hwit sAndi an hwit 
Monday.” “I should like to ask you something here,” 
mAndi” “ai fad laik tu a:sk ju: s Amply hia” 
Storm interrupted again. “Don’t you keep the day when 
sto:m inta'rAptid a'gein. “dount ju: ki:p da dei hwen 
Christ ascended to Heaven as a holiday? I didn’t hear 
kraist a'sendid ta hevn az a holidi? ai didnt hia 
you mention it?” “It’s not a general holiday, with the 
ju: menfan it?” “its not a d^enaral holidi, wid da 
shops closed and so on,” Marshall answered, “but we 
fops klouzd an sou on” maifal a:nsad, “bat wi: 
have a name for it, of course, Ascension Day, on which 
hav a neim far it, av ko:s, a 1 senfan dei, on hwitf 
the churches hold special services for Christ’s ascension 
da tfa:tjiz hould spefal sa:visiz fa kraists asenfan 
to Heaven.” 
ta hevn” 
“Well, that is all very much like our holidays at home,” 
“wel, dcet iz o:l veri mAtf laik aua holidiz at houm,” 
a holiday which I’m sure you haven’t got,” Marshall 
a holidi hwitf aim fua ju: hcevnt got, }> ma:fal 
replied, “and it’s one that we all love and look forward 
rtplaid, “and its WAn dat wi: o:l Iav an luk fo:wad 
to for weeks. It’s called August Bank Holiday, and 
tu fa wi:ks. its ko:ld o:gast bceyk holidi, and 
The Fifty-Second (52nd) Chapter. 
it’s always on the first Monday in August. The weather 
its o:lwaz on da fa:st mAndi in o:gast. da wedar 
is generally fine, and everybody has a lovely time. As a 
iz dynarali fain , and evribodi haz a IavU taim. az a 
boy I often went into the country on that day with 
boi ai o:fn went inta da kAntri on dcet dei wid 
my people, starting as soon as the sun had risen and people (here) = 
mat pi:pl, sta:tiy az su:n az da SAn had rizn an P arent s 
returning in the evening very, very tired and very, 
ri'tarniy in di i:vniy veri, veri taiad an veri, 
very happy. We might as well have gone any other 
veri hcepi. wi: mail az wel hav gon eni Ada 
summer day during the school holidays, but it was 
SAma dei djuariy da sku:l holidiz, bat it waz 
always much more fun on that day, because so many 
o:lwaz niAtj mo: fAn on dcet dei, bi x koz sou meni 
people were out.” “Why is it called ‘Bank Holiday’?” 
pi:pi wa:r aut” te hwai iz it ko:ld c bceyk holidi y ?” 
Storm asked. “That needs a little explaining,” Mar- 
sto:m a:skt. “dcet ni:dz a litl iks'pleiniy,” ma:- 
shall replied. “We have four ‘bank holidays’: Boxing 
jal ri' plaid. “wi: hav fo: ‘bceyk holidiz y : boksiy 
order: Easter Monday, Whit Monday, August Bank order = the way 
o:da : i:sta mAndi, hwit mAndi, o:gast bceyk one thing follows 
* J another 
Holiday, and Boxing Day. The law of the country says 
holidi, an boksiy dei. da lo: av da kAntri sez 
that on these four days all banks must close, and as 
dat on di:z fo: deiz o:l bceyks most klouz, and oz 
factories, shops, and offices then close, too, those days 
fcektariz, fops, and ofisiz den klouz, tu:, douz deiz 
have become general holidays.” 
hav bik\m dynaral holidiz.” 
“I see,” Storm said. “And I understand what you said 
“ai si:,” sto:m sed. “and ai Anda'stcend hwot ju: sed 
about closing on the three weekdays following religious 
a'baut klouziy on da pri: wi:kdeiz folouiy ri'lid^as 
holidays, but I really find it a funny thought that your 
holidiz, bat di riali faind it a pAni po:t dat jo: 
great British Parliament should have taken the trouble 
greit britij pd.'lamant Jad hav teikn. da trAbl 
to discuss a question like the third holiday and make 
ta dis'kAS a kwestfan Idik da pa:d holidi an meik 
an Act of Parliament about it. But I suppose that if 
an cekt av pd.'lamant a 1 bout it. bat di sa'pouz dat if 
you had time to read through all the Acts of Parliament 
ju: had taim ta ri:d pru: o:l di cekts av pa.lamant 
that make up the laws of the country, you would find 
dat meik Ap da lo:z av da kAntri, ju: wad fdind 
many strange things.” ‘Til tell you what I think,” 
meni streind 3 piyz.” (( dil tel ju: hwot ai piyk,” 
Marshall replied with a smile; “I think that at the end 
md.'Jal ri'plaid wid a small; “di piyk dat at di end 
of an extremely hot week once upon a time, some 
av an iks x tri:mli hot wi:k waus a'pon a taim, SAm 
The Fifty-Second (52nd) Chapter. 
Member of Parliament who perhaps was a bank 
me mb dr dv pa:ldmdnt hu: p o'keeps woz d beeyk 
manager thought to himself, ‘How unpleasant to have 
meenid^o po:t td him'self, K hau An'pleznt td heev 
to work in this heat, and how nice if one could get 
td wd:k in dis hi:t, dn hau nais if wah kdd get 
away from town for an extra day, at least once during 
d'wei frdm taun fdr dn ekstrd dei, dt li:st waus djuoriy 
the summer! One ought to suggest, next time Parlia- 
dd sAiiid! WAti o:t td so'd^est, nekst taim pa:fo¬ 
ment sits, that all banks must close one Monday every 
mdnt sits, ddt o:l beeyks mdst klouz wah MAndi evri 
summer.’ And so he did, and so it became an Act of 
SAiiid . 9 dn sou hi: did, dn sou it bi'keim dn eekt dv 
Parliament, and so everybody was happy, as they say 
pa.'fomdnt, dn sou evribodi wdz heepi, dz dei sei 
in the story-books!” As they rose to get off, Storm 
in dd sto:ribuks!” dz dei rouz td get o:f, sto:m 
said with a laugh, “You would make a great teacher 
sed wid d la:f, “ju: wdd meik d greit ti:tfdr 
of history, I think. If there was something you didn’t 
dv histdri, ai piyk. if dee wdz SAmpiy ju: didnt 
know, you would always be able to make up a fine 
nou , ju: wdd o:lwdz bi: eibl td meik Ap d fain 
story in no time!” 
sto:ri in nou taim!” 
in no time = in a 
very short time 
14 4 
WORDS: 
general 
generally 
Boxing Day 
milkman 
off 
complete 
object 
decision 
forward 
religion 
settle 
birth 
true 
date 
prove 
account 
Easter Sunday 
Easter Monday 
Easter 
Whit Sunday 
Whit Monday 
Whitsun 
consist 
Good Friday 
ascend 
Ascension 
heaven 
thought 
act 
law 
rise 
rose 
EXERCISE A. 
at the office that nobody asked for days off during 
In the days before Christmas there are always many 
things in the windows so that they may get an idea to 
their friends and family during Christmas. In the bus 
showed it to Marshall. 
in the Bible. 
In England they have four holidays called bank holi¬ 
days: Easter Monday,-,-, and Boxing Day. 
Easter consists of three holidays,-,-, and Easter 
The Fifty-Second (52nd) Chapter. 
ment should have taken the trouble to make the decision 
in the bus home, and that if he did get a seat, he very 
risen 
God 
Christ 
excuse 
grave 
Empire Day 
empire 
Bible 
order 
Christmas box 
passenger 
EXERCISE B. 
Answer these questions with full sentences: 
EXERCISE C. GRAMMAR. 
Numerals [n jit: mar els] are words like the following: 
one, four, six, the first, the third, the sixth. There are 
two kinds of numerals, cardinals \ka:dinab] and ordinals 
[j:dinals\. Of the examples mentioned ‘one’, ‘four’, and 
‘six’ are cardinals, and ‘the first’, c the third’, and 
‘the sixth’ are ordinals. 
Cardinals are used to express the number of persons, 
animals, or things that we are speaking of. Examples: 
I have thirteen shillings in my pocket. Nine men and 
eight women were present. 
Ordinals show the order in which persons, animals, or 
things appear or happen. Examples: March is the third 
month of the year. This is the fifth time I have had 
to close the door. 
Here are lists of cardinals and ordinals. By the help 
of these you will be able to express any numeral in 
English. 
Cardinals 
1 one [wAn] 
2 two [ tu:] 
3 three [pri:] 
4 four [/;?:] 
5 five [ faiv ] 
6 six [ siks] 
7 seven [sevn] 
8 eight [eit] 
9 nine [nain] 
10 ten [ten] 
11 eleven [i'levn] 
12 twelve [twelv] 
13 thirteen ['pd.'ti.n] 
14 fourteen 
15 fifteen ['fifti.n] 
16 sixteen ['siks'ti.n] 
Ordinals 
the first [f 3 :st] 
the second [sekand] 
the third [pd:d] 
the fourth [fo:p] 
the fifth [fifp] 
the sixth f siksp] 
the seventh [sevnp] 
the eighth [eitp] 
the ninth [nainp] 
the tenth [tenp] 
the eleventh [i'levnp] 
the twelfth [twelfp] 
the thirteenth ['pd:'ti:np] 
the fourteenth 
['fo:'ti:np] 
the fifteenth \'fifti:np] 
the sixteenth ['siks'ti:np] 
The Fifty-Second (52nd) Chapter. 
17 seventeen 
[ { sevn'ti:n] 
18 eighteen ['ei'ti:n] 
19 nineteen 
['tidin'ti:n] 
20 twenty [twenti] 
21 twenty-one 
[twenti'wAn], etc. 
30 thirty [ pa:ti] 
40 forty [fo:ti] 
50 fifty [ fifti ] 
60 sixty [siksti] 
70 seventy [ sevnti ] 
80 eighty [eiti] 
90 ninety [nainti] 
100 a (or one) hun¬ 
dred [ hxndrdd ] 
101 a (or one) hun¬ 
dred and one 
135 a (or one) hundred 
and thirty-five 
200 two hundred 
1,000 a (or one) thousand 
[pauzand ] 
1,001 a (or one) thou¬ 
sand and one 
1,100 eleven hundred or 
a (or one) thou¬ 
sand one hundred 
1,157 eleven hundred 
and fifty-seven or 
a (one) thousand 
one hundred and 
fifty-seven 
2,000 two thousand 
100,000 a (or one) hun¬ 
dred thousand 
the seventeenth 
['sevn'timp] 
the eighteenth [ x ei'ti:np] 
the nineteenth 
[ l nain x ti:np] 
the twentieth [twentiip] 
the twenty-first [twenti- 
1 fd:st\, etc. 
the thirtieth [pditiip] 
the fortieth [fj:tiip] 
the fiftieth \fiftiip\ 
the sixtieth [sikstiip] 
the seventieth [sevntiip] 
the eightieth [eitiip] 
the ninetieth [naintiip] 
the (one) hundredth 
[ JiAndrddp ] 
the (one) hundred and 
first 
the (one) hundred and 
thirty-fifth 
the two hundredth 
the (one) thousandth 
[pauzandp ] 
the (one) thousand and 
first 
the eleven hundredth or 
the (one) thousand 
one hundredth 
the eleven hundred and 
fifty-seventh or the 
(one) thousand one 
hundred and fifty- 
seventh 
the two thousandth 
the (one) hundred thou¬ 
sandth 
341,771 three hundred 
and forty-one 
thousand seven 
hundred and 
seventy-one 
1,000,000 a (or one) million 
[miljon\ 
3,000,533 three million 
five hundred and 
thirty-three 
the three hundred and 
forty-one thousand 
seven hundred and 
seventy-first 
the (one) millionth 
[miljdnp] 
the three million five 
hundred and thirty- 
third 
Notice that with a few exceptions the ordinals are made 
by adding th to the cardinals. Examples: The thirteen 
-th, the eleven-th. 
Questions: 
How would you write the following figures in letters: 
5, 9, 17, 19, 32, 51, 143, 701, 1,003, 53,731; 7th, 12th, 32nd, 
EXERCISE D. 
did wud, 
it woz nais id get jo: letd dn hid SAmpiy d'baut hwot 
iz gouiy on dt houm. sou ju: hdv bi:n teikiy mai 
sistd fd trips intd dd kAntri! wel, ai ridli dount non 
hwot td sei to dcet. if ju: a:nt gouiy to bi: mo: 
keoful in do fju:tfo d'baut teikiy ho:r out intu o:l 
kaindz ov wedo on briyiy ho: b(ek houm o:l wet on 
kould, ai so'pouz ai jot luev to rait on tel ho: hwot 
on An'pleznt felou ju: a:! bot po'hceps ji:l faind aut 
fd ho .'self. 
The Fifty-Second (52nd) Chapter. 
ai zvent on d trip into do kAntri mat self sam taim 
o'gou zvid a ;aij leidi ko:ld mcerian, da do: tar av aua 
mcenid^a. bat ai had o:dad a blu: skai, da sirjirj ov 
ba:dz, and a zvud ful av tri:z zvid red an braun li:vz; 
dcets haxi its dAn in iygland! mcerian iz a veri IavU 
ga:l, ai kan tel ju:. ju: kan si: dcet fa jo:' self from 
dis piktfar av ha:, hzvitf ai tuk dcet dei in da kAntri . 
pli:z dount tel dis ta mai sista, o:r aim a'freid dat 
fi: zvil not fi:l da ris'pekt fo: mi: dat sistaz fad hcev 
fa dear elda brAdaz. bat ju: mei rtmemba mi: ta 
ha:, an ta da rest av da fcemili. 
jo:z sin'siali, 
sto:m 
