Chapter Fifty-Three (53). 
The Fifty-Third (53rd) Chapter. 
A TRIP TO BRIGHTON 
When Storm started working at the office, it was 
hwen sta:m sta:tid wa:kiy at di afis, it waz 
decided that he should only remain as long as the 
di'saidid ddt hi: fad ounli ri'mein az lay dz da 
clerk whose work he was taking care of was ill. But 
kla:k hu:z iva:k hi: waz teikiy kear av waz il. bat 
when the clerk was able to take over his own work 
hwen da kla:k waz eibl ta teik onva hiz oun wa:k 
again at the beginning of the new year, the manager 
a'gein at da bi'giniy av da nju: jia, da mcenid^a 
wanted Storm to stay on for a few months longer. 
wontid sta:m ta stei an far a fju: m.xnps hyga. 
“I shall be very busy the next eight months or so. 
“ai jal bi: veri bizi da nekst eit mAnps a: sou. 
We’re planning to open some new branch offices, so it 
wia plceniy tu oupan sam nju: bra:nf afisiz, sou it 
would be nice to have you as a sort of private secretary. 
zvad bi: nais ta hcev ju: az a sa:t av praivit sekratri. 
I shall need your help very badly.” 
ai jal ni:d ja: help veri bcedli” 
Storm was only too glad to get this chance of staying 
sta:m waz ounli tu: glced ta get dis tja:ns av steiiy 
on, because he wanted to see the spring in England, 
an, bi'kaz hi: wantid ta si: da spriy in iygland, 
566 
The Fifty-Third (53rd) Chapter. 
of which he had heard so much. A week later every- 
av Jnvitf hi: had ha:d sou m\tj. a zvi:k leita wri¬ 
thing had been settled; he was to stay in England as 
pit) had bi:n setld ; hi: was ta stei in iy gland as 
long as the manager needed him. 
lay as da manid^a ni:did him . 
So when May came he was still in London, working 
sou hwcn mei keim hi: was stil in l\ndan y wa:kiy 
hard. Summer had come, and as the weather had been 
hct:d. sMiia had k\m, and as da weda had bi:n 
extremely fine for several days, Marshall and Storm 
iks'tri :mli fain fa sevral deis , ma:fal and sta:m 
decided to go to the seaside for the week-end after a 
di'saidid ta gou la da 'si:'said fa da 1 wi:k'end a:ftar a 
particularly busy week. 
pa'tikjulali bisi wi:k. 
“A week-end at the sea-side would do us good after 
“a 'wi:k'cnd at da 'si:'said 1 wad du: as gud a:ftar 
a week’s hard work,” Marshall said, “and even if it may 
a wi:ks lia:d zva:k” ma:fal sed, (C and i:van if it mei 
still be a little cold to bathe, the sea will be beautiful, 
stil bi: a litl kould ta beid, da si: wil bi: bju:taful , 
and the fresh sea-air will be nice after the bad London 
an da fref 'si:'sa wil bi: mis a:fta da bced l And an 
air.” “What is the best place on the coast to go to?” 
ea” (C hwat is da best pleis an da konst ta gou tut* 
Storm wanted to know. “I think Brighton will be 
sta:m wantid ta non. (: ai piyk braitn wil bi: 
567 
Chapter Fifty-Three (53). 
best,” Marshall answered. “It’s a pleasant town on 
best” via :fdl a:nsdd. “its a plesnt taun an 
the south coast of England. We could stay the night 
da setup konst av iy gland. wi: kad stei da nait 
at one of the hotels and return on Sunday evening.” 
at w\n av da hou'teb an rfta:n an sAiidi i:vniy.” 
“Fine!” said Storm. “Let's hurry home from the 
“/a////” sed sta:m. “lets li\ri houm frain di 
office, then, without stopping for lunch at our usual 
of is, den, zvid'aut stapiy fa Unf at ctua jtrytal 
place. Perhaps your mother will prepare a quick 
pleis. pa'heeps ja: in Ada 7C dl pri'pear a kwik 
lunch for us at home while we throw a few things 
| ^ A;/ / f 3r AS h° ltm hwail wi: P r °u z fj li: piy~ 
into a bag.” “We shan't need much more than a 
intu a beeg” “wi: fa:nt ni:d niAtf rna: dan a 
tooth-brush and a comb, so there won’t be much to 
tit:pbrAj and a koum, sou dr.a wonnt bi: niAtf ta 
pack. We'll have time enough before our train leaves.” 
peek. ivi:l hav taim i'liAf bi'fa:r ctua trein li:vz 
“Speaking of tooth-brushes,” Storm said, “I must 
“spi:kiy av tu: pbrAfic” sta:m sed, “ ai mast 
remember to buy some tooth-paste on the way home. 
ri'memba ta beti sain tu:ppeist an da wei houm. 
I noticed this morning, when I was brushing my teeth, 
ai noutist dis ma:niy, hwen ai zvas brAfiy max ti:p t 
one tooth 
two teeth 
that I had used up all my tooth-paste. I think I'll try 
dat ai had ju:zd a p a:l mai tu:ppeist. ai piyk ail trai 
568 
The Fifty-Third (53rd) Chapter. 
a shop I’ve often noticed. It’s only a short distance 
a Jap a:v a:fn noutist. its ounli a fa:t distdns 
from the Underground station, you know, the one which 
fram di Andagraund steijan, ju: nou, da w\n hzvitf 
has an unusually large sponge lying in the window. 
J\az an ah' ju:$itali laid 3 spAnd$ laiiy in da windou. 
It must be fun to use a sponge as big as that in the 
it mast hi: Jah ta ju:z a spAnd 3 az big az dcet in da 
bath; you could almost wash the whole body with it 
ba:p; ju: had a:lmoust waf da houl badi zvid it 
sponge 
at once. I saw some beautiful brushes there the other 
at zvaus. cii sa: sam bju:taful brAfiz dea di Ada 
day, too. I'd like to buy them for my sister. She takes 
dci, tu:. aid laik ta bai dam fa mai sista. fi: teiks 
a lot of trouble with her hair and brushes it carefully take trouble with 
a lat av tr aM zvid ha: hea an brAfiz it keafuli with™ 1 * carefully 
morning and night; so those fine brushes would be just 
ma:nifj an naif; sou douz fain brAfiz zvad hi: d$Ast 
the thing for her, one for her hair and one to brush 
da pig fa ha zvau fa ha: hea an zvah ta brAf 
her clothes with. Perhaps there's a comb to go with 
ha: kloudz zvid. pa'hcups daz a koum ta gou zvid 
them, too.” 
dam, tu:” 
“Well, don't be too long about your shopping,” Marshall 
“zvel, dount bi: tu: lay a 1 bout ja: fapiy ” mo:fat 
said. “I shall have to look for my bathing-costume. 
sod. “ai fal hcrz> ta luk fa mai beidiykastju :m. 
569 
Chapter Fifty-Three (53). 
My mother puts it away every winter, and never twice 
mai m\da puts it nwci cvri 7 vinta, an nova twais 
in the same place, so I can’t be sure of finding it at 
in do scini plcis, sou ai kcr.nt hi: juor ov faindiy it at 
one e.” 
7V MIS.” 
“Do you think it will be warm enough to bathe?” Storm 
“du: ju: piyk it wil hi: 7oo:m i'n.xf id beid?” sto:m 
asked. “Then I’ll take my bathing-drawers, too.” 
a:skt. “den ail teik mai beidiydro:z. tu:.” 
“Bathing-drawers!” Marshall said. “Haven’t you got 
“beidiydro:z!” ma:fdl sed. “hermit ju: got 
a bathing-costume? At one time you were not allowed 
a beidiykostju :mf ot 70x11 taim ju: 700: not o'laud 
to use bathing-drawers, but nowadays it’s perfectly all 
td ju:z beidiydro :z, bdt nauddeiz its po:fiktli o:l 
right of course. However, we English are funny in 
rait dv ko:s. hau'evd, 70 i: iyglij a: f.xni in 
many ways, you know. By some people bathing- 
meni weiz, ju: non. bai saih pi: pi beidiy- 
drawers are still regarded as not quite the thing for 
dro:z a: stil ri'ga:did dz not kwait da piy fa 
bathing.” “Well, I haven’t got anything else, so I’ll 
bcidiy” “7oeI, ai luevnt got enipiy els, sou ail 
have to take them along,” Storm answered. 
luev ta teik dam a'loy” sto:m a: ns ad. 
570 
Two hours later the two young men were sitting in 
tu: auaz leita da tu: j.\y men 7 va: sitiy in 
The Fifty-Third (53rd) Chapter. 
a bus on their way to Brighton. “The distance from 
a 1?as an dea wci ta braitn. “dd distans fram 
London to Brighton is only about fifty miles,” Marshall 
Undan ta braitn iz ounli a'baut fifti mailz” ma:fal 
explained, “so I thought we might go there by bus 
iks'pleind, “sou ai pa:t zvi: limit gon dea bai Ijas 
instead of by train. The country between London and 
in'sted av bai trcin . da kxntri bi'tzvim Undan an 
Brighton is very beautiful, and you’ll see more from 
braitn iz veri bjn:taful, an ju:l si: ma: fram 
the bus. The trees will be looking their best now; 
da b\s. da tri:z zvil bi: lukirj dea best nan; 
there will be flowers in bright colours by the roadside, 
dea zvil bi: flanaz in brait kwlaz bai da rondsaid, 
and the leaves and the grass will be of that lovely 
an da li:vz an da gra:s zvil bi: av dcct Uvli 
fresh green that they only have during the weeks 
fref grim dat dci onnli Jucv djnariij da zvi:ks 
when spring is turning into summer. I want you to 
hzvcn sprig iz tarnitj hit a SAina. ai want ju: ta 
see England at its very best — in May, in the country, 
si: iggland. at its veri best — in mei , in da kAiitri, 
when everything is fresh and clean and full of peace 
hwen evripiy iz fref an kli:n an fnl av pi:s 
and beauty. 
an bju:ti. 
“It’s funny, isn’t it, that although I should not like to 
u its fAni, iznt it, dat a:Vdon ai fad nat laik ta 
by the roadside = 
by the side of the 
road 
571 
Chapter Fifty-Three (53). 
in the distance = 
far away 
windmill 
live in the country, May always makes me wish to 
liv in dd kAntri, met o:lwdz meiks mi: wij td 
spend the summer in the country, to see the corn 
spend dd s Ain dr in dd kAntri, td si: dd ko:n 
standing green in the fields and the cows happy in 
standiy gri:n in dd- fi:ldz dii dd kauz ha pi in 
lovely deep grass.” 
IavU di:p gra:s” 
“I quite understand how you feel,” Storm replied, “and 
“ai kwait Andd'stand hau ju: fi:l,” sto:m ri 1 plaid, cs dnd 
I’m glad we came by bus. I’m really seeing the country 
aim glad wi: keim bai bAS. aim ridli si:iy dd kAntri 
this way. Look, Marshall,” he continued, “isn’t that 
dis wei. luk, ma.fdl” hi: kdn'tinju :d, “iznt dat 
a windmill we can see in the distance?” “Yes, it is,” 
d windmil wi: kdn si: in dd distdns?” “jes, it iz” 
Marshall replied. “We still have a few left, although 
ma:jdl ri'plaid, “wi: stil hav d fju: left, o:l [ dou 
in most places factories have taken over the work of 
in moast pleisiz faktdriz lidv teikn ouvd dd wa:k dv 
making corn into flour, which the windmills used to do. 
meikiy ko:n intd flaud, hwitj dd windmilz ju:st td du:. 
Factories can make flour cheaper, I suppose. And as 
faktdriz kdn meik flaud tfi:pd, ai sd'pouz. dnd dz 
bread is such a large part of the nation’s food, it’s 
bred iz s\tf d la:d$ pa:t dv dd neifdnz fu:d, its 
important, of course, that flour should be cheap.” 
im'pd:tdnt, dv kj:s, ddt flaud fdd hi: tji:p” 
572 
The Fifty-Third (53rd) Chapter. 
“What a lot of work must be done to the corn,” Storm 
“hzv.it a Lit av zva:k mast bi: d\n td da k.i:n” st.i:m 
said as he looked out over the fields, “in the course of 
scd az hi: lukt aut oava da fi:ldz, “in da ka:s av 
the months from the time when the farmer puts the 
da ntAtips fram da taint hum da fa:ma puts da 
plough into the ground in spring until we put the bread 
plan inta da ground in sprig ah' til z vi: put da bred 
on our tables! When the ground has been broken by 
an ana teiblz! hzvcn da ground has bi:n broukn hoi 
the plough, the seed is put in, and then after five or 
da plan, da si:d iz put in, an den o:fta fob a 
six months the corn is ready to be taken to the mills, 
silcs mMips da ka:n iz redi ta bi: teikn ta da mHz . 
or factories, to be made into flour, and at last it is 
a: fcektariz, ta bi: meid inta floua, and at lo:st it iz 
made into bread. When the corn has been taken to the 
meid inta bred. hzven da ka:n haz bi:n teikn ta da 
mills, there is still something left of the plant, which 
mHz, daz stil sAinpig left av da plo:nt, h7vitf 
is used for the animals during the winter. Not all the 
iz ju:zd fa di animals djuarig da zvinta. nat a:l da 
corn is sent to the mills; some of it is used for next 
ka:n iz sent ta da mHz: saw av it iz ju:zd fa nekst 
year’s seed.” 
jiaz si:d” 
“Yes,” Marshall replied. “In town you usually don’t 
“jcs” mo:jal ri'ploid. “in toun ju: jir.ytali dount 
573 
Chapter Fifty-Three (53). 
think of these things. You go into a shop, ask for some 
piyk dv di:z piyz. jit: gou in tit a jap, a:sk fa sain 
bread, and in the course of a minute or two you leave 
bred , and in da ka:s av a minit a in: jit: Ii:v 
grow (here) ~~ 
make grow 
the shop with the bread you have bought. Just as easy 
da fap ivid da bred ju: hav ba:t. d$.\st az i:zi 
as buying potatoes, and yet, how much more easily 
az Ixtiiy pa'teitouz , an jet , lwu m\tf nu:r i:zili 
potatoes are grown!” 
pa'teitoitz a: groun!” 
Time passed quickly on the road. Every few minutes 
taint pa:st kwikli an da roud. evri fju: minits 
the view changed. They passed through some small 
da vju: tfeindyl. dei pa:st pru: sain snia:I 
towns with beautiful old houses, between rose-bushes 
taunz zvid bjn:taful ould hauziz , bi'tzci:n rouzbufiz 
that grew in long rows along both sides of the road, 
dat grit: in lay rouz a lay boup soidz av da roud. 
full of red and white flowers, or looked over bright 
fid av red and hwait flauaz, a: Inkt oitva brait 
green fields, pleasantly broken by a few trees here 
gri:n fi.ldz, plezntli broukn bai a fju: tri:z hiar 
and there, a thing which is typically English. They 
and dea, a piy hwitf iz tipi kali iyglif . dei 
arrived at Brighton about four o’clock, and one of the 
a'raivd at broitn a l batit fa:r a'klak, and vo\n av da 
first things they did when they reached their hotel 
fa:st piyz dei did Inven dei ri:tft dea hou'tel 
574 
The Fifty-Third (53rd) Chapter. 
was to order tea. 
7 voz tu o:do ti:. 
‘Til take mine with lemon to-day,” Storm said. “I like 
“ail tcik wain wid lemdn to'dci,” sto:m scd. “ai laik 
it best that way when I’m hot and thirsty. Won’t you 
it best deet zvei Inven aim hot on f>o:sti. wount jit: 
try it, too, Marshall? You won’t regret it.” “Yes, I’ll 
frai it, tu:, ma:jol? ju: wount ri'gret it.” u jes, ail 
take lemon in my tea, too, for once,” Marshall replied. 
tcik lemon in mai ti:, tu:, fo w.\ns ” ma:fol r\ plaid. 
“But I’ll have to take at least three lumps of sugar 
“hot ail herv to teik ot li:st pri: l.xmps ov fugo 
to make it sweet enough. Oh, I say, Storm, look at that 
to meik it swi:t i'n.xf. on, ai sei, storm, Ink ot dcct 
little dog, over there! He’s looking at our sugar as if 
litl dog, ouvo dco! hi:z lukiij ot auo fugor oz if 
we’d taken it from him. We’ll have to give him a lump 
wi:d teikn it from him. wi:l heev to giv him o l\mp 
of sugar. He doesn’t look as if he belongs to anybody 
ov fugo. hi: d.xznt Ink oz if hi: bi'loyz tu enibodi 
here; he must have come here by himself.” 
hio: hi: most hov k\m hio bai him'self ” 
While they were having tea, a band started playing 
hwail dci wo: hccviij ti:, o beend sta:tid pleiiy 
in the restaurant. “Do people dance here in the after- 
in do restoro:y. “du: pi: pi da: ns hi or in di a:fto- 
noons?” Storm asked, noticing that they were playing 
x nu:nz?” sto:m a:skt, noutisiy dot dci wo: pleiiy 
lemon 
by himself = 
alone 
575 
Chapter Fifty-Three (53). 
dance-music. “No, not at this hotel,” Marshall replied. 
da:nsmju:zik. “non, nat at dis hoi/tel / 3 ma:jdl ri plaid. 
“But there are several restaurants where you can dance 
“bat dea sevral restara:yz hwea ju: kan da:ns 
at this time of the day. There will be dancing here 
at dis taim av da dci. dea wil hi: da: ns it] hi a 
to-night, though, as far as I know. Have you noticed 
ta'nait, dou, az fa:r az ai non. liav ju: non fist 
that they have seven or eight instruments that they 
dat dci liav scvn ar cit instrumants dat dci 
aren’t using? I suppose that means there will be a 
a:nt ju:ziyf ai sa'pouz dcct mi:nz dr a wil hi: a 
larger band playing later on, and that there will be 
la:d$a band pleiirj leitar an , an dat dra wil hi: 
dancing then. Would you like to go to some other place 
da.nsirj den. wad ju: laik ta gou ta saw \da plcis 
to dance?” 
ta da:nsf” 
“No, dancing on a nice afternoon like this has no 
“non, da:nsifj an a nais a:fta'nu:n laik dis haz non 
attraction for me,” Storm said. “Besides, I want to 
a'trcekfan fa mi :/ 3 sta:m sed. “hisaidz, ai zvant ta 
see as much of the town as possible while we are here.” 
si: az m.\tf ay da taun az pasabl hzvail wi: a: hia . 33 
“Right you are! Let’s go, then,” Marshall answered. 
“rait ju: a:! lets gou, den / 3 ma:fal a:nsad. 
“We might walk about a bit. I want to show you the 
“wi: wait wa:k a'baut a bit. ai want ta fou ju: di 
576 
The Fifty-Third (53rd) Chapter. 
attractions of the town — just like a professional guide: 
a'trcekjanz av da taun — d^Ast laik a pra'fefanal gaid: 
Here, ladies and gentlemen, you see ..., etc. Brighton 
hid, leidiz an d^entlman, ju: si: .. it'setra. braitn 
is full of cinemas, theatres, restaurants, music-halls, 
iz ful av sinimaz, piataz, restaraiyz, mju:zikha:lz, 
and all kinds of places where you can have a good 
and a:l kaindz av pleisiz hwea ju: kan hcev a gud 
time. I really think that although Brighton is a 
taini. ai riali pirjk dat a:l'dou braitn iz a 
seaside town, its attraction for many of the people 
'si:'said taun , its e'trcekfan fa meni av da pi: pi 
who come here lies more in these things than in the 
hit: kxm hi a laiz ma:r in di:z pirjz dan in da 
beach,” Marshall explained as they left the hotel. 
bi:tf” ma:jal iks'pleind az dei left da hou'tel. 
“Really?” Storm asked. “You would think that, first 
“riali?” sta:m a:skt. “ju: wad piyk dat, fa:st 
of all, people come here to bathe, since this street, with 
av a:l, pi:pi k\m hia ta beid, sins dis stri:t, wid 
all these hotels on one side, is situated almost at the 
a:l di:z hou'telz an wxn said , iz sitjueitid a:lmoust at da 
very edge of the sea. You only have to walk a few 
veri ed$ av da si:. ju: ounli hcev ta wa:k a fju: 
steps across the street, and you find yourself on the 
steps a'kras da stri:t, an ju: faind ja: l self an da 
beach. What is the beach like here?” “It's rather 
bi:tf. hwat iz da bi:tf laik hia?” “its ra:da 
hall (here) = very 
large room 
music-hall = 
a sort of theatre 
with music, 
singing, and 
dancing 
577 
Chapter Fifty-Three (53). 
good,” Marshall replied. “On this part of the coast, 
gud ” ma:fal rf plaid. “on dis pa:t ov do koust , 
the beach generally consists of small round stones 
da bi:tf d^enarali kan'sists av smo:l ra-und stounz 
which don’t hurt the feet at all. In fact, many people 
hwitf dount ha:t da fi:t dt o:l. in fcekt, meni pi:pl 
prefer these small stones to sand. ‘Sand , 5 they say, 
pri'fa: di:z smo:l stounz ta scend. 'scend? dei set, 
‘gets into your shoes and your stockings and your hair 
‘gets inta jo: Ju:z an jo: stokiijz an jo: hea 
and gives you a lot of trouble before you get it out.’ 
an givz jit: a lot av trAbl bi'fo: ju: get it autd 
However, if you prefer sand, I know a place not very 
hau'eva , if ju: pri'fa: scend , ai nou a pleis not veri 
far from here where the beach has lovely red sand. 
fa: from hid hwea da bi:tf Jtaz IavU red scend . 
We might go out there to-morrow.” 
wi: mait gou aut dea ta'morou” 
“I think I’d rather try this place,” Storm answered. 
“ai pitjk aid ra:da troi dis pleis , 33 sto:m a:nsad. 
“Perhaps there’s sand enough on the shores of your 
“pa x hceps daz scend i'nAf on da fo:z av jo:r 
own country,” Marshall said. “I think I prefer the 
oun kAntri” ma:jal sed. “ai piyk ai pri'fa: da 
stones myself; they’re quite comfortable to lie on.” 
stounz / nai'self; dea kwait kwmfatabl ta lai on. >} 
“Just a minute,” Storm interrupted, “I must ask you 
“d$ASt a minit , 33 sto:m inta'rAptid, “ai mast a:sk ju: 
578 
The Fifty-Third (53rd) Chapter. 
to explain the meaning of a word you used just now 
tu iks'plein dd mi:niy dv d wa:d ju: ju:zd d$Ast nau 
— ‘shore*, I think it was.” “With pleasure,” Marshall 
— ai piyk it woz” “wid pletf,” ma:jdl 
replied. “It means almost the same as ‘beach*, but 
ri'plaid. “it mi:nz o:lmoust dd seim dz c bi:tf y , bdt 
not quite. Both ‘beach* and ‘shore* mean ‘land at the 
rut kwait. boup ‘ bi:tj * dn *fj: y mi:n Hand dt di 
edge of a sea or a lake*. But while ‘beach* is only 
ed$ dv d si: o:r d leik\ bdt hwail € bi:tf y iz ounli 
used about a low piece of land with sand or small 
ju:zd d'baut d lou pi:s dv land wid sand o: smo:l 
stones at the edge of the sea or at the edge of a large 
stounz dt di ed$ dv dd si: o:r dt di ed$ dv d la:d 3 
lake, ‘shore* may also be used where the land rises 
leik , *fd : 9 mei o:lsou bi: ju:zd hwsd dd land raiziz 
sharply out of the sea without any low piece of land 
fa:pli aut dv dd si: wid'aut eni lou pi:s ov land 
at the edge of the water, as for instance at Dover. So 
dt di ed$ dv dd wo:td, dz fdr instdns dt douvd. sou 
you see, a ‘beach* is always a ‘shore*, but a ‘shore* is 
ju: si:, 0 *bi:tj y iz o:lwdz 0 ‘Jo: 9 , bdt d K fo: y iz 
only a ‘beach* if it has small round stones or sand — 
ounli d *bi:tf y if it hdz smo:l raund stounz o: sand — 
if you know what I mean.” “Thanks! I think I do,” 
if ju: nou hwot ai mi:n” “payks! ai piyk ai du:” 
Storm said. “At least I know enough to be able to 
stj:m sed. “dt li:st ai nou i'n\f td bi: eibl td 
579 
Chapter Fifty-Three (53). 
find out the rest when I read the word or hear some- 
faind aut da rest hwen ai ri:d da wa:d o: hia sam- 
body use it. But tell me, don’t you think we might 
badi ju:z it. bat tel mi:, dount ju: piyk wi: mait 
be able to get a boat somewhere?” “Yes, that’s easy 
bi: eibl ta get a bout SAmhwea ?” “jes, dcets i:zi 
enough,” Marshall replied. “There isn’t wind enough 
i'nxf , 33 ma:jal ri'plaid. (C dar iznt wind i'nAp 
for sails, though, and, besides, I’m not very used to 
fa seilz, dou, an, bi'saidz, aim not veri ju:st ta 
boats with sails, so I should prefer one of the small 
bouts wid seilz, sou ai fad pri'fa: WAn av da sma:l 
boats that you see down there on the beach.” “You 
bouts dat ju: si: daun dear an da bi:tf” “ju: 
need not be afraid,” Storm said, “I know all about 
ni:d nat bi: a'freid,” sta:m sed, “ai nou a:l a'baut 
boats and sails, so I’ll take care of that side of the 
bouts an seilz, sou ail teik kear av dcet said av da 
matter.” “Oh, in that case,” Marshall answered, “I 
mceta . 33 “ou, in dcet keis,” ma:jal a:nsad, “ai 
don’t care which we go out in, as long as you’ll be 
dount kea hwitf wi: gou aut in, az lag az ju:l bi: 
the captain. But I think it would be a good idea to 
da kceptin. bat ai piyk it wad bi: a gud ai'dia ta 
wait until this evening before going out,” he continued. 
weit An' til dis i:vniy bi'fa: gouiy aut / 3 hi: kentinju.d. 
“As far as I remember, there will be a moon to-night, 
“az fa:r az ai ri'memba, dea wil bi: a mu:n ta'nait, 
580 
The Fifty-Third (53rd) Chapter. 
and if the weather doesn’t change, the stars will be 
and if da weda dAznt tjeind 3 , da sta:z wil bi: 
out, too. But after all we had better take one of the 
aut, tu:. bat aiftar ail wi: had beta teik wah av da 
small boats, for what little wind there is will be gone 
smo:l bouts , fa hwat litl wind dar iz wil bi: gan 
to-night.” 
ta'nait” 
The sea was as smooth as glass when they went out 
da si: waz az smu:3 az gla:s hwen dei went aut 
in a small boat that evening. There was not a single 
in a small bout dcet iivniy. dea waz nat a siygl 
wave on the surface of the water. 
weiv an da saifis av da waita. 
“What a lovely sight it is,” Marshall said, “with the 
<( hwat a IavU sait it iz” maifal sed, “wid da 
moon and the stars up there in the sky and, at the 
mum an da sta:z a p dear in da skai and, at da 
same time, shining back at us from the smooth surface 
seim taim, jainiy bcek at as fram da smuid saifis 
of the sea, and all the lights from the many hotels on 
av da sii, and ail da laits fram da meni hou x telz an 
the shore.” “Yes, I’m glad we waited till it was dark; 
da fai” “jes, aim glced wi: weitid til it waz daik; 
it’s a sight I shan’t forget,” Storm replied. 
its a sait ai faint fa'get,” staim ri'plaid. 
When they got on shore again, Marshall suggested that 
hwen dei gat an fair a'gein, maifal sa'd$estid dat 
581 
Chapter Fifty-Three (53). 
they should have a look at the night-life of Brighton. 
dei fad hcev a luk at da naitlaif av braitn. 
“Our night-life is not what they call ‘hot’ in America, 
“aua naitlaif iz not hwot dei ko:l e hot’ in a'merika, 
but we might look in at a few places and see* if there’s 
bat wi: mait luk in at a fju: pleisiz an si: if daz 
going on = taking 
place 
any fun going on anywhere.” 
eni f\n gouiy on enihwea ." 
They did as Marshall suggested and passed a very 
dei did az ma:fal sa'd^estid and pa:st a veri 
pleasant evening, returning about eleven o’clock to 
pleznt i'.vnifj, ri'ta:niy a x baut ilevn a'khk ta 
their hotel to have a glass of something in the restaurant 
dea hou'tel ta hcev a gla:s av sAmpiy in da restart:y 
turn in = go to 
bed 
before ‘turning in’. The band was much larger now 
bi'fa: Ha.nirj in’ da bcend waz MAtf la:d$a nau 
than in the afternoon, and all the musical instruments 
dan in di a:fta'nu:n } and o:l da mju:zikal instrumants 
were being used. 
wa: bi:iy ju:zd. 
“It’s almost too much of a good thing with all the noise 
(e its o:lmoust tu: mAtf av a gud piy wid o:l da noiz 
the band is making now,” Storm said; “I liked it better 
da bcend iz meikiy nausto:m sed; “ai laikt it betar 
in the afternoon.” “That’s because we aren’t dancing,” 
in di a:fta'nu:n” <e dcets bi'kaz wi: a:nt da:nsiy,” 
Marshall replied. “Could we do that?” Storm asked. 
ma:fal riplaid. <( kud wi: du: dcet?” sto:m a:skt. 
582 
The Fifty-Third (53rd) Chapter. 
“Yes, it’s quite proper to dance with girls you don’t 
“jes, its kwait propa td da:ns wid ga:lz ju: dount 
know at seaside places like this,” Marshall answered. 
nou dt 1 si : 1 said pleisiz laik dis,” ma:jdl a: ns ad. 
“There will often be girls staying with their families 
(C dea wil o:fn bi: ga:lz steiiy wid dea fcemiliz 
at the hotel, or young women spending a little holiday 
at da hou'tel, o: jAy wimin spendiy a litl holidi 
alone, who are usually glad to have a few dances with 
a x loun, hu: a: ju:$uali glad ta hav a fju: da:nsiz wid 
you. Let’s see if we can find two pleasant-looking 
ju:. lets si: if wi: kan faind tu: plezntlukiy 
girls.” “Look over there, Marshall, at the three women 
ga:lz.” (C luk ouva dea, ma:jal, at da pri: wimin 
at that table, especially the one to the left. What on 
at deet teibl, is'pefali da wau ta da left, hwot on 
earth is she doing?” “I think she’s beating time to the 
a:p iz fi: du:iyf” “ai piyk fi:z bi:tiy taim ta da 
music with her hand,” he answered, “perhaps to show 
mju:zik wid ha: hand” hi: a:nsad, “pa'hceps ta jou 
that she can dance and is willing to, if anybody should 
dat fi: kan da:ns and iz wiliy tu, if enibodi fad 
ask her. I must say they’re a strange collection, those 
a:sk ha:, ai mAst sei dear a streind$ ka'lekfan, douz 
three! They must be at least fifteen years older than 
pri:! dei mast bi: at li:st fifti:n jiaz oulda dan 
they’re trying to appear. Look at the other one, now! 
dea traiiy tu a'pia. luk at di Ada wau, nau! 
appear (here) — 
look 
583 
Chapter Fifty-Three (53). 
She is putting still more red ‘paint’ on her lips and 
Ji: iz putty stil mo: red ( peint* on ho: lips on 
powder on her nose and cheeks. I wonder what they 
paudor on ha: nous an tfi:ks. ai wAnda hwot dei 
look like under that surface of powder and paint?” 
luk laik Anda dcet sa:fis av paudar an peint? >} 
“You should look over there instead,” Storm said, 
“ju: lad luk ouva dear in'sted” sto:m sed, 
noticing two girls of about twenty entering the restaurant 
noutisiy tu: ga:lz av a'baut twenti entariy da restaro.y 
in the company of a man who looked old enough to be 
in da kAmpani av a mean hu: lukt ould i'nAf ta bi: 
their grandfather. They were tall and good-looking, 
dea grcendfa:da. dei wa: to:l and gudlukiy, 
not beautiful, but with the clear skin and rosy lips and 
not bju:taful, bat wid da klia skin and rousi lips and 
cheeks for which English women are famous. “Have 
tfi:ks fa hwitf iyglif wimin a: feimas. cc hav 
you noticed the way the smaller of them is walking in 
ju: noutist da wei da smo:lar av dam is wo:kiy in 
time to the music? Musical people often do that. I 
taim ta da mju:zik? mju:zikal pi:pi o:fn du: dcet. ai 
am sure she dances well.” 
am jua ji: da:nsiz wel ." 
In fact, both girls moved across the dance-floor with the 
in feekt, boup ga:lz mu:vd a'kros da da:nsflo: wid da 
grace of young animals. “If they dance with as much 
greis av j\y cenimalz. “if dei da:ns wid az mAtj 
584 
The Fifty-Third (53rd) Chapter. 
grace as they walk, it should be lovely to dance with 
yreis az dei wa:k, it fad bi: IavU td da:ns wid 
them. Do you think they will dance with us?” Storm 
dam. da: ju: piyk dei wil da:ns wid as?” sta:m 
asked. “We can only find that out by asking them. 
a:skt. “wi: kdn ounli faind dcet aut bai a:skit) dam. 
But let’s give them a chance to taste their wine, or 
bat lets giv dam a tfa:ns ta teist dea wain, o: 
whatever they’re having, before we ask them. Did 
Imot'eva dea hcevirj, bi'fa: wi: a:sk dam. did 
you notice that they are both wearing very beautiful 
ju: noutis dat dei a: boup wearirj veri bju:taful 
jewels round their necks?” Marshall continued. “As 
dyi.alz round dea neks?” ma:jal kan'tinju:d. “az 
far as I can see from here, the tall girl’s jewels are 
fa:r az oi lean si: fram kia, da ta:l ga:lz d$u:alz a: 
quite like her sister’s, except that the stones of their 
kwait laik ha: sistaz, ik'sept dat da stounz av dea 
jewels are of different colours. For I suppose that they 
d$u:alz a:r av difrant kAlaz. far oi sa'pouz dat dei 
must be sisters.” 
mast bi: sistaz.” 
“I shouldn’t wonder if they are,” Storm said. “How 
“oi fudnt WAndar if dei a:,” sto:m sed. (( hau 
different these two are from the three painted ladies 
difrant di:z tu: a: fram da pri: peintid leidiz 
over there. You can easily see that when you compare 
ouva dea. ju: kan i:zili si: dcet hwen ju: kampea 
585 
Chapter Fifty-Three (53). 
the quiet good taste of the two girls* jewels with the 
da kwaiat gnd teist av da hi: gj.b d$u:alz wit 5 da 
auntie = aunt 
‘loud’ jewels our three ‘aunties* have hung round their 
Hand 9 dyi:alz ana pri: *a:ntiz y hav h\y round dsa 
thin necks — gold and silver, and stones in all colours!” 
pin neks — gould an silva. an si mine in a:l hwlae!” 
“Yes, I suppose their jewels must be expensive, but 
“jes, ai sa'pouz dea derate mast hi: iks'pensw , bat 
they look as if they might have been bought at one 
dei Ink az if dei mail hav bi:n ba:t at wxn 
of those stores where nothing costs more than sixpence,” 
av douz sto:z hwea nApirj kasts ma: dan sites pans/' 
Marshall replied. 
ma:fal ri l plaid. 
“Well, shall we ask if the girls would care to dance 
“wel, fal 7 vi: a:sk if da ga:\z wad kra ta dams 
with us? We had better go one at a time — you first! 
wid as? wi: had beta gou i vah at a taim — jn: fa:st! 
Which of them have you thought of asking?” Storm 
hwitf av dam hav ju: pa:t av a:skifj?” sta:m 
wanted to know. “The smaller one. But I don*t want 
wanlid ta non. “da sma:Ia WAn. bat ai donut want 
to go first,” Marshall replied. “Well, if I’m to go first, 
ta goU fa:st 9i ma:fal rVplaid. “%vel, if aim ta gou fa:st, 
I shall ask the small one,” Storm laughed. “I liked 
ai fal a:sk da sma:l wau stami la:ft. “ai laikt 
the way she moved in time to the music.” 
da wei fi: mu:vd in taim ta da mju:zik” 
586 
The Fifty-Third (53rd) Chapter. 
“So did I. However, I’d rather not go first; but if they 
“sou did ai. han'eva, aid ra:do not gou fa:st; bat if del 
care to have more than one dance with us, perhaps 
kea to hcev mo: dan wah da:ns wid as, pa'keeps 
I might have a chance later of trying how well she 
ai wait hav a tfa:ns leitar av tram] hau wel fi: 
dances. All right, run along now,” Marshall said, “and 
darnsiz. o:l rait, yah a'hy nan/* ma:fal sed, “an 
don’t forget to bow to grandpa and ask him first if 
donut fa'get ta ban ta grernpa: and a:sk him fa:st if 
you may dance with one of his young ladies!” 
ju: mei da:ns wid 7Vaii av biz jAij leidiz” 
Storm collected all his courage and walked up to the 
sto:m ka'lektid o:l biz kArid3 and wo:kt \p ta da 
table where the two girls were sitting. As he came 
teibl hwea da tu: ga:lz wa: sitiy. az hi: keim 
nearer, he noticed that the taller of the girls looked 
niara, hi: non fist dot da to:lar av da ga:lz lukt 
a little like Marion, and so at the last minute he decided 
a litl laik nicer ion, and sou at da Ia:st minit hi: di'said id 
to ask her. First he bowed once in the general direction 
tu a:sk ha:. fa:st hi: baud waiis in da dynaral di'rckjan 
of their table, then he bowed to the old gentleman, 
av dea teibl, den hi: baud ta di ould d^entlman, 
and at last he bowed to the girl and asked in a voice 
and at la:st hi: baud ta da ga:l and a:skt in a vois 
that he hardly recognized as his own, “May I have the 
dat hi: ha:dli rekagnaizd az hiz oun, “mei ai heev da 
grandpa = 
grandfather 
587 
Chapter Fifty-Three (53). 
pleasure of having this dance with you?” 
ple$ar av hceviy dis dams wid ju 
Soon they were all talking pleasantly together, and 
sum dei wd:r o:l to:kiy plezntli ta'gedd, and 
after the first few dances the old gentleman invited 
a:ftd dd fa:st fju: damsis di otild d^entlman in'vaitid 
them to move over to his table. 
dam td mu:v ouva to hie tcihl . 
On Sunday evening the two friends went home by 
on sAndi i:vniy dd tu: frends went houm hai 
train after having spent a very pleasant week-end at 
trein a:fta hceviy spent d veri plesnt { 2vi:k'end at 
the seaside. 
da 'si:'said. 
WORDS: 
grace 
week-end 
tooth 
teeth 
brush 
brush (verb) 
tooth-paste 
tooth-brush 
comb 
sponge 
EXERCISE A. 
Storm — to see the spring in England. Marshall and 
Storm went to Brighton for the —. Brighton is a town 
on the south — of England. A — is used to — your 
teeth with. In the morning, when brushing his —, 
Storm had noticed that he had used up all his —. A — 
is used to brush your hair with, and a — is also used 
for the hair. 
The two friends wanted to bathe, so Marshall took 
his — with him and Storm his —. The — from London 
588 
The Fifty-Third (53rd) Chapter. 
to Brighton is about fifty miles. In former times the — 
made corn into —, but now the factories do it. When 
the ground has been broken by the —, the — is put 
into it. The corn is taken to the — to be made into 
flour. At the hotel Marshall and Storm took their tea 
with —. Marshall took three — of sugar. 
After tea Marshall wanted to show Storm the dif¬ 
ferent — of the town. The — at Brighton consisted of 
small stones, which many people prefer to —. Marshall 
knew a place with — sand. Both ‘beach’ and ‘’ 
mean land at the edge of a sea. Storm knew all about 
boats with —. 
EXERCISE B. 
Write about one of the latest books you have read. 
Was it about a subject you are interested in, or was 
it just a good story? Tell us if you liked it, if you 
know anything about the person who wrote it, etc. 
Use your own words as well as you can when writing 
the exercise, which should have a length of 200—300 
words. 
EXERCISE C. GRAMMAR. 
Verbs are words that tell us what persons or things 
do or are. They also tell us what happens. Here are 
some examples: The girl goes to school at eight o’clock 
in the morning. The man drove the car. The boy is 
small. The horse was running very fast. I have eaten 
my apple. He could see many houses from his window. 
bathing-drawers 
bathing-costume 
drawers 
distance 
roadside 
seed 
instrument 
plough 
windmill 
left 
mill 
flour 
course 
lemon 
lump 
seaside 
coast 
shore 
beach 
sand 
dance (verb) 
dance 
attraction 
bow 
music 
musical 
time 
up 
cheek 
powder 
jewel 
compare 
moon 
star 
surface 
sail 
smooth 
589 
Chapter Fifty-Three (53). 
grandpa 
What happened then? In these sentences the words 
‘goes 5 , ‘drove’, ‘is’, etc., are verbs. 
A verb has several forms. ‘Write’, ‘wrote’, ‘written’, 
‘writing’, ‘writes’ are all forms of the verb ‘to write’. 
The form ‘to write’ we call the infinitive [ in'finitiv ], and 
this is generally the form we give when we mention 
a verb. Examples: to go, to eat, to swim, to play. 
The form of the verb that expresses the time of the 
sentence we call its tense. The verbs have several 
tenses, which may be seen from the following sentences: 
I am ill now. I was ill yesterday. I have been ill for 
three days. The time “now” is expressed by the present 
tense. Here are some examples of verbs in the present 
tense: I hope to see you again. We think of going there 
often. You never eat enough. We write letters every 
day. 
The forms used in the present tense are the following: 
I call, you call, he (she, it, the boy) calls, we call, you 
call, they (the boys) call. You will notice that the form 
is the same in all cases, except one: after ‘he’, ‘she’, ‘it’, 
and a noun in the singular, an -s is added. 
The -s is pronounced [s] after the sounds p, t, k, f, />, 
which are called voiceless f voislis] consonants, but 
after the sounds b, d, g, m, n , tj, v , d, l, which are called 
voiced [voist] consonants, and after vowels, the -s is 
pronounced [s]. Examples: he thanks \/>(eyks], he brings 
[briyz], he hears f hi as]. 
590 
The Fifty-Third (53rd) Chapter. 
Notice that if the verb ends in the sounds s, s, /, 3, 
a whole syllable [-is J is added: he passes \pa:sis], he 
rises f raisis], he wishes [wifis], he changes [tfeindys]. 
In writing, -es is added in such words if they do not 
end in an -e beforehand: wish-es, rise-s. 
If a verb ends in a consonant followed by -y in the 
infinitive, it changes -y into -ie before -s is added, for 
instance, try — tries. But if a vowel comes before the 
-y, the -y remains when -s is added: stay — stays. 
Questions: 
What are verbs? ... What is the tense of a verb? ... 
How do you make the form of the present tense after 
‘he’, ‘she’, 'it*, or a noun in the singular? ... What do 
you add to a verb in the present tense after ‘he’, ‘she’, 
‘it’, or a singular noun, if it ends in s, s, /, 3? ... If a verb 
ends in -y in the infinitive, do you always change it 
into -ie before -s is added? ... 
591 
