Chapter Fifty-Four (54). 
The Fifty-Fourth (54th) Chapter. 
RAILWAYS 
“Really, Marshall, 55 Storm said, when they were 
“riali, ma:fal/ y sto:w sed, hwen dei wo: 
discussing their trip to Brighton over a quiet cup of 
dis'kAsiy dra trip td braitn ouvar a kwaidt k\p av 
tea on Sunday night, “I must say a few words in praise 
ti: on SAndi naif, “ai most sei o fju: wa:dz in preiz 
of your railways. Not only was our train extremely 
dv jo: reilweiz. not ounli waz ana trein iks'tri:n\li 
comfortable, but I was surprised to find how fast it 
kAmfatabl, bat ai waz sa'praizd ta faind halt fa:st it 
went. The journey home from Brighton was very 
ivent. da d$a:ni hourn fram braitn waz veri 
quick indeed.” 
kwik iridi'.d” 
“Yes, we*re rather proud of our railways. Most people 
“jes, wia ra:da proud av ana reilweiz. tnoust pi:pi 
who come to Britain from the Continent have nothing 
hu: Jcaih ta britan fram da kontinant hav nApiy 
but praise for our trains. The reason why our railways 
bat preiz far ana treinz. da ri:zn hwai aua reilweiz 
are better than those of most other countries many 
a: beta dan donz av moust \da kAfitriz ineni 
think is this: In most countries the railways have 
piyk iz dis: in moust kAntriz da reilweiz hav 
592 
The Fifty-Fourth (54th) Chapter. 
always been owned by the State, but over here they 
j:lwdz bi:n ound bat dd steit, bdt ouvd hid dei 
were under the control of four big private companies 
wd:r Afidd dd kdritroul dv fo: big praivit kAMpdniz 
until the first of January 1948. Where the 
An'til dd fd:st dv d^cenjudri nainti:n fj'.tieit. hwed dd 
State owns the railways, there’s no competition, and 
steit ounz dd reilweiz, ddz nou kompi'tijdn, dn 
that often means, they say, that nobody takes any real 
dcct o:fn mi:nz , dei sei, ddt noubddi teiks eni ridl 
trouble to make a first-class business out of them. This 
tiwbl td meik d fd:stkla:s biznis ant dv ddm. dis 
usually means, of course, that railways owned by the State 
jicyidli mints, dv kj:s, ddt reilweiz ound bai dd steit 
don’t make money, but lose money instead. Although 
dount meik m\ni, bdt lu:z iliAni in'sted. o:l'dou 
our railways are now owned by the State, you must 
c ntd reilweiz a: nan ound bai dd steit, jtt: mdst 
remember that they had been made into a first-class 
ri'membd ddt dei hdd bi:n meid intn d fd:stkla:s 
business by the people who owned them before.” 
biznis bai dd pi: pi hu: ound ddm bifo:” 
Storm: “Yes, I can easily understand that there must 
sto:m: “jes, ai kdn i:zili \ndd'stand ddt ded mdst 
have been much competition between the four com- 
hdv bi:n inAtf kjmpi'tifdn bi'twi:n dd fo: kwin- 
panies, and-1 also understand that this may have been 
pdniZj dnd ai j:Isou And d'stand ddt dis mei hdv him 
company = busi¬ 
ness into which 
many people have 
put money 
make money = 
earn money 
He loses, he lost, 
he has lost [lu:ziz, 
lost, lost]. 
593 
Chapter Fifty-Four (54). 
benefit = advan 
tage 
in the way of = 
as to 
a benefit to the people who used the trains. Each 
3 benifit td dd pi:pi hu: ju:zd dd trains. i:tf 
of the companies, of course, wanted to get as much 
dv dd kAmpdnis , ov ko:s, wont-id td get oz niAtf 
of the transport as possible. Their accounts had to 
dv dd trecnspo:t dz posobl. dear o'kaunts heed td 
show a profit at the end of the year. If they lost 
jou 3 profit dt di end ov do jio. if dei lost 
business, they lost money, and if they lost too much 
biznis, dei lost ntAni , ond if dei lost tit: m\tj 
money, their accounts would show a loss instead of 
ntAni, dedr d x kaunts wod jou d los in'sted ov 
a profit; then people wouldn’t put their money into 
d profit; den pi:pl wudnt put deo itiAiii into 
that company, and it would soon be finished. But 
deet kAinpdni, ond it wod su:n bi: finift. bot 
tell me, what could they really do in the way of com- 
tel mi:, hwot hud dei rioli du: in dd wei dv horn - 
petition? It isn’t always that competition is good.” 
pi l tifdn? it iznt o:hvdz ddt kompi'tifon iz gild” 
“Oh, there were, and still are of course, many forms 
“on, ded wo:, on stil a:r dv ko:s, meni fo:mz 
of service to be found in our trains. We really feel 
dv so:vis td bi: faund in auo treinz. wi: ridli fi:l 
that somebody is always thinking out new comforts 
ddt SAinbddi iz o:lwdz pitjkiy out nju: kAmfdts 
for the travellers. In almost all carriages we have 
fd dd trecvldz. in o:lmoust o:l keerid^iz wi: hdv 
594 
The Fifty-Fourth (54th) Chapter. 
soft seats to sit on, instead of hard seats of wood. At 
soft si:ts ta sit on, in'sted av ha:d si:ts av wud. dt 
many stations we can buy a cup of tea, take it along 
meni steijdnz wi: kan bai a k\p av titeik it a'hy 
in the train, and leave the empty cup at another station. 
in da train, an li:v di cmti k\p at a'nAda steijan. 
In one or two trains running between London and 
in WAn a tu: trains rAtiiy bi'turi:n Lxndan an 
Brighton, they have special carriages with typewriters 
braitn, dei hav spejal kcerid^iz wid taipraitaz 
for business men and their secretaries.” 
fa biznis men an da a sekratriz” 
“I see that your railways differ very much from those 
“cli si: dat jo: reilweiz difa veri niAtf fram douz 
in my country,” Storm said. “At home, there is, for 
in mai kAntri,” sta:m sad. “at honm, dar iz, far 
instance, a great difference between first and third 
instans, a grait difrans bi'tzvi:n fa:st an pa:d 
class carriages. The first class carriages, of course, 
kla:s kceridyz. da fa:st kla:s karidyz, av ko:s, 
have soft seats, but many third class carriages still 
hav soft si:ts, bat mani pa:d klcr.s kceridyz stil 
have hard wooden seats. And typewriters! I’m sure 
hav ha:d witdn si:ts. an taipraitaz! aim fua 
nobody ever thought of having typewriters for business 
noubadi eva pa:t av Juuvig taipraitaz fa biznis 
wood = what 
chairs and tables 
are made of 
typewriter 
wooden = made 
of wood 
men in our trains.” 
men in aua treinz” 
595 
Chapter Fifty-Four (54). 
“There’s another difference which I’m almost sure you 
(< baz a'nxba difrans hwitf aim o.’lmoust fud ju: 
have noticed,” Marshall said. “Our carriages are a 
hav noutist” ma:fal sed. “aua kceridyz a:r a 
little narrower than those used on the Continent, 
litl nceroua dan Sous ju:zd on da kontinant, 
although the space between the rails isn’t narrower. 
o:Vdou da speis bi'twi:n da reilz iznt nceroua. 
With narrower carriages running on the rails, it means 
wid nceroua kceridyz rAnirj on da reilz, it mi:nz 
that trains can go much faster. You will remember 
dat treinz kan gou mAtf fa:sta. ju: wil ri'memba 
that we Englishmen built the first railways. That is 
dat wi: iyglijman bilt da fa:st reilweiz. dcet iz 
to say, already more than two thousand years ago the 
ta sei, o.Vredi mo: dan tu: pauzand jiaz a'gou da 
Romans knew how to use rails of stone or wood for 
roumanz nju: hau ta ju:z reilz av stoun o: wud fa 
the transport of heavy objects. But it was in England 
da trcenspo. t av hcvi obdykts. bat it waz in iy gland 
that the first modern railway was opened, with a real 
dat da fa:st mod an reilwci waz oupand, zvid a rial 
engine that was moved forward by steam. At first 
endyn dat waz mu:vd fo:wad bai sti:m. at fa:st 
people were afraid of these engines with steam coming 
pi:pi wa:r a'frcid av di:z endynz zvid sti:m k\miy 
out of them. They thought that the engines weren’t 
aut av dam. dei po:t dat di endynz wa:nt 
596 
The Fifty-Fourth (54th) Chapter. 
safe and dared not ride in trains pulled by engines. 
seif an dead not raid in treinz puld bai endynz. 
So not until the engines had been used for some time 
sou not An'til di endynz had bi:n ju:zd fa s\m taini 
for the transport of goods, did people believe that they 
fo da trmispo:t av gudz, did pi:pi bi'li:v dat dei 
were quite safe, and that they could ride in the trains 
wo: kzvait seif , an dat dei kad raid in da treinz 
without danger. I think it would be hard to-day to 
wid'aut deind^a. ai piijk it zvad bi: ha:d ta'dei to 
find a person who wouldn't dare to ride in a train.” 
foind o pa:sn Inc zvudnt dea ta raid in a trein” 
“How strange to think that the railways, which have 
“hau streind3 to piijk dot da rcilzveiz, Ivwitf hav 
been of such benefit to people, were so long in having 
hi: 11 ov s.\tf bcnifit ta pi:pi, zva: sou lorj in hcevirj 
success!” Storm said. “Just think how travelling, a 
sak'ses!” sto:m sed. “d^Ast piijk hau trcevliy, a 
little over a hundred years ago, differed from travelling 
litl onvor o hAiidrad jioz a'gon, difad fram trcevliy 
to-day! A two hours' trip to-day would have been 
ta'dei! o tic anoz trip ta'dei zvad hav bi:n 
a two days' journey then — a very uncomfortable 
o tic dcic d 30:111 den — 0 veri ah' k Ain fatabl 
journey, too — and not very safe. Nowadays we sit 
d^o.-iii, tu: — an not veri seif. nauadeiz wi: sit 
at ease on seats as comfortable as our chairs at home. 
ot i:z on si:ts az k\mfatabl az aua tfeaz at houm. 
at ease = com¬ 
fortably 
597 
Chapter Fifty-Four (54). 
restaurant car = 
railway carriage 
used as a restau¬ 
rant 
He flies, he flew, 
he has flown 
[flaiz, flu.:, floun]. 
unknown = not 
known 
‘Cheltenham 
Flyer* = thefastest 
train running 
between London 
and Cheltenham 
‘Flying Scotsman* 
= a well-known 
train running 
between London 
and Edinburgh 
[ edinbor9] 
If we get hungry on the trip, we only have to go into 
if zvi: get JiAijgri on do trip, wi: ounli hcev to gou into 
the restaurant car and order what we want, and then 
do rest or on] ka:r ond o:do Invot zvi: zvont, on den 
sit at ease in soft chairs, watching houses and trees 
sit ot i:z in soft tfeoz, zvotfiy hauziz on tri:z 
fly past the window, while we are waiting for the 
flai pa:st do zzdndou, hzvail zvi: a: weitiy fo do 
food.” 
fu:d” 
“Yes,” replied Marshall, “the railways soon became a 
“jes” ri { plaid ma:fol, “do reilzveiz su:n bi'keim 0 
success, even if the first trains were uncomfortable and 
sok'ses, i:von if do fo:st treinz zvo:r Aii ] k.\infotobI on 
the service now given to passengers was quite unknown 
do so:vis nau gizni to pcesind^oz woz kzvait 'An'noun 
then. The speed of those first trains in comparison 
den. do spi:d ov douz fo:st treinz in kom'pcerisn 
with what people were used to must have given the 
zvid hzvot pi:pi wo: ju:st tu most hov givn do 
first passengers a feeling that they were flying along 
fo:st pcesind^oz 0 fi'.liy dot dei zvo: flaiiy o'loy 
as fast as birds. Speaking of birds and flying, it is said 
oz fa:st oz bo:dz. sp'r.kiy ov bo:dz on flaiiy , it iz sed 
that some of our trains, for instance, the ‘Cheltenham 
dot SAin ov auo treinz, for instons, do *tfeltnom 
Flyer 5 and the ‘Flying Scotsman 5 , two of the fastest 
flaio y on do *flaiiy skotsmon 9 , tu: ov do fa:stist 
598 
The Fifty-Fourth (54th) Chapter. 
trains in the world, when at their greatest speed, really 
treinz in da wa:ld, hwen at dea greitist spi:d, riali 
do go faster than any bird has ever flown. I don’t 
du: gou fa:sta dan eni ba:d haz eva floun. ai dount 
know whether it’s true, though.” 
non hwedar its tru:, don ” 
“I hardly think so. But even without that there are 
“ai ha:dli piyk sou. bat i:van wid'aut dcet dea 
so many things that I must praise,” Storm answered. 
sou meni pifjz dat ai mast preiz,” sta.m a:nsad. 
*Tve noticed, for instance, that there are very fine 
“aiv noutist, far in stans, dat dea veri fain 
connections between most of the larger towns. There 
ka'nekfanz bi'twi:n nioust av da la:d^a taunz . dea 
are connections several times a day from one end of the 
ka'nekfanz scvral taimz a dei fram wah end av da 
country to the other. And the connections from London 
/»wntri ta di Ada. an da ka'nekfanz fram lAndan 
are so frequent that you can go almost anywhere 
a: sou fri:kwant dat ju: kan gou admoust enihwea 
whenever you want to. I’m sorry to say that in my 
hwen 1 eva ju: want tu. aim sari ta set dat in mai 
country this is not always so.” 
kxntri dis iz nat a:lwaz sou ” 
“Perhaps that is why many Londoners are such fre- 
“pa'keeps deet iz hwai meni lAndanaz a: SAtf fri 
quent guests in the country. It’s made easy for them 
kwant gests in da k\ntri. its meid i:zi fd dam 
599 
Chapter Fifty-Four (54). 
to get away,” Marshall replied. “You seem to be made 
ta get a'wei,” ma:jal ri'plaid. “jn: si:m td bi: meid 
of the right material for a true Londoner; I’ve noticed 
dv dd rait ma'tiarial far a tru: l And ana; aiv noutist 
that it’s getting harder and harder to keep you at home 
dab its getiy lia:dar an ha:da ta ki:p ju: at houm 
during the week-ends. You go about in trains as if 
djuariy da 'wi.k'endz. ju: gou a'baut in treinz az if 
you were getting material together for a book about 
ju: wa: getifj ma'tiarial ta'geda far a buk a'baut 
the country round London — or perhaps you just want 
da kAntri raund Undan — a: pa'hceps ju: d$Ast want 
to be sure that the railways will get a nice profit?” 
ta bi: fua dat da reilweiz wil get a nais prafit?” 
“Don’t be foolish, Marshall,” Storm replied. “I’m sorry 
u dount bi: fu:lif . iim.fal” sta:m ri'plaid. “aim sari 
I haven’t told you any more about my trips than I have, 
ai hcevnt tould ju: eni ma:r a'baut mai trips dan ai hcev , 
but I will tell you all about them later on.” “This 
bat ai wil tel ju: a:l a'baut dam leitar an.” c( dis 
sounds very interesting. — And what has come over 
saundz veri intristiy. — an hwat haz kAin ouva 
you, since you suddenly look so serious? Have you 
ju:, sins ju: SAdnli luk sou siarias f hav ju: 
lost all your smiles in the train?” “Please don’t make 
last a:l ja: smailz in da trein?” u pli:z dount meik 
fun of me — I’m really a rather serious young man at 
fAn av mi: — aim riali a ra:da siarias jAy mcen at 
600 
The Fifty-Fourth (54th) Chapter. 
heart!” “So I see. Excuse me, old man! But I'm 
ha:t!” “sou ai si:. iks l kju:z mi:, ould man! bat aim 
sure that yours is not only a case of the loss of a few 
fud ddt jo:z iz not ounli d keis av 3 b hs bv b fju: 
smiles. I wonder if you haven't lost your heart as 
smailz. ai WAndar if ju: hcevnt lost jo: ha:t bz 
well?” Storm: “What do you mean?” “I mean,” 
wel?” sto:m: “hwot du: ju: mi:n?” “ai mi:n/ 9 
Marshall replied, “— no, I shall answer you with another 
ma:fal riplaid, “ — nou, ai fal a:nsa ju: wid a'riAda 
question: Are you alone on your frequent Sunday trips 
kwestjan: a: ju: e'loun on jo: fri:kwant SAndi trips 
into the country?” “Hem — I'm not quite ready to tell 
intd da kAntri?” “hm — aim not kwait redi ta tel 
you about that yet.” “Oh, sorry! I can wait.” 
ju: a'baut dcet jet ” “ou, sori! ai ken weit” 
EXERCISE A. 
Until the first of January 1948, all the railways in Eng¬ 
land were owned by four — and were not under the — 
of the State. The English railways are of great — to 
the passengers. The passengers sit on — seats, instead 
of hard seats made of —. Most railways owned by the 
State show a — when the accounts are made up at the 
end of the year, while the private railway companies 
generally show a —. 
WORDS: 
frequent 
transport 
safe 
dare 
steam 
engine 
success 
journey 
601 
Chapter Fifty-Four (54). 
uncomfortable 
restaurant car 
unknown 
fly 
flew 
flown 
flyer 
wood 
wooden 
soft 
difference 
differ 
benefit 
control 
lose 
lost 
loss 
profit 
company 
connection 
competition 
rail 
service 
ease 
praise 
praise (verb) 
material 
typewriter 
Storm told Marshall that the railways in his country 
in many ways — from the railways in Britain. They 
did not give the passengers such good —. The — be¬ 
tween the first and third class carriages was very great. 
Nowadays you can sit at — in the restaurant — and 
have your dinner while you are travelling. They say 
that the train called the ‘Cheltenham —’ runs faster 
than any bird has ever —. In one or two trains running 
between London and Brighton, they have — for business 
men. Storm — the English railways, and Marshall 
answered that most foreigners had only words of — 
for them. 
Although the British carriages are narrower, the space 
between the — in England is the same as on the Con¬ 
tinent. When the first railways were built, modern 
comforts on the trains were quite —. Before the rail¬ 
ways came, a trip which now is made in a few hours 
was often a — of several days. It is the — that pulls 
the train. Most engines are driven by —. At first 
people thought that the trains were not —, and there¬ 
fore they — not ride in them, but used them only for 
the — of goods. Now, however, they have had great 
— everywhere. There are Very good — between all the 
larger towns in England. Storm had made — trips into 
the country during the last months. When Storm 
answered Marshall in a serious voice, Marshall asked 
him if he had — all his smiles in the train. 
602 
The Fifty-Fourth (54th) Chapter. 
EXERCISE B. 
Answer these questions with full sentences: 
Which do you think is the cheaper way of transport of 
goods, by ship or by train? ... Are all the railways in 
your country owned by the State? ... What service do 
your trains give to the passengers? ... Have you got 
trains that have names, as some trains have in England? 
... Do railways in your country show a profit or a loss? 
... Why do you think this is so? ... Which way of 
travelling do you prefer, by train or by boat? ... 
EXERCISE C. GRAMMAR. 
The present tense of the verb ‘have’ is not made in the 
normal way after ‘he’, ‘she’, ‘it’, or a noun in the 
singular. The form is ‘has’: I have, you have, he (she, 
it, the boy) has, we have, you have, they (the boys) 
have. In the same way, the present tense of the verb 
‘do’ is irregular [i'regjuh], that is, not normal, after ‘he’, 
‘she’, ‘it’, or a noun in the singular: I do [dw:], you do, 
he (she, it, the boy) does [<Iaz] , we do, you do, they (the 
boys) do. Verbs ending in -o add -es after ‘he’, ‘she’, ‘it’, 
or a noun in the singular. Example: I go, he goes. 
The verbs ‘shall’, ‘will’, ‘can’, ‘may’, ‘must’, ‘ought’ do 
not add an -s when used with ‘he’, ‘she’, ‘it’, or a noun 
in the singular, and have consequently only one form 
in the present tense. Examples: He will do it. John 
must not go to school to-day. He can pay the bill. She 
may come at any time. 
603 
Chapter Fifty-Four (54). 
‘Dare’ and ‘need’ may be without -s after ‘he’, ‘she’, ‘it’, 
or a noun in the singular, if they are followed by an 
infinitive. Examples: He needs the money. He need 
not go there. Let him come if he dares. He dare not 
go there. 
The present tense of the verb ‘be’ has three different 
forms: I am, you are, he (she, it, the boy) is, we are, 
you are, they (the boys) are. 
Questions: 
What is the present tense form of ‘have’ after ‘he’, ‘she’, 
‘it’, or a noun in the singular? ... What is the present 
tense of ‘do’ after ‘he’, ‘she*, ‘it’, or a noun in the 
singular, and how is the form pronounced? ... What 
do verbs ending in -o add in the present tense after 
‘he’, ‘she’, ‘it’, or a noun in the singular? ... Mention 
the six verbs which do not end in -s after ‘he*, ‘she*, ‘it’, 
or a noun in the singular.... What are the present tense 
forms of the verb ‘be’? ... 
604 
