Chapter Fifty-Five (55). 
The Fifty-Fifth (55th) Chapter. 
AN IMPORTANT QUESTION 
Storm's special work for Mr. Edwards made it necessary 
sta.mz spejdl zva:k fa mistar edwadz meid it nesisari 
for him to spend many evenings at the manager's house. 
fa him ta spend meni i:vniyz at da mcenid^az haus. 
When work was finished on these nights, Mrs. Edwards 
hwen wa:k zvaz finift an di:z units misiz edzvadz 
and Marion usually laid the tea-table, and they all had 
and mcerian jn.^uali leid da ti:teibl, and dei a:l heed 
a cup of tea together. 
a kxp av ti: ta'geda. 
In this way it was not long before the two young people 
in dis zvei it zvaz not lay bi'fa: da tu: j\y pi:pi 
had become great friends. They went about together 
had bi'kAm greit frendz. dei zvent a'bciut ta'geda 
quite a lot, to restaurants now and then, to see a picture, 
kzvait a lat, ta restar a :yz nau and den, ta si: a piktfa, 
or on small trips to places outside London. 
a:r an sma:l trips ta pleisiz nut said l And an. 
On the Sunday following the trip to Brighton, Marion 
an da SAndi falouiy da trip ta braitn, mcerian 
had agreed to go with Storm to spend a day in the 
had a'gri:d ta gou zvid sta:ni ta spend a dei in da 
hills south of London. London itself is mostly built 
hilz saup av Undan. Lmdan it'self iz moustli bilt 
605 
Chapter Fifty-Five (55). 
since (here) 
= because 
curve = bend 
on very flat ground, but a short distance to the south 
on veri fleet graund, bdt d fo:t distdns ta da saup 
of the city there are high hills, from which there is 
av da siti dear a: hai hits, fram hwitf dear is 
a very beautiful view of London and the country round 
a veri bju. taful vju: av Undan and da kAntri raund 
it. The highest of the hills is called Leith Hill; that 
it. da haiist av da hilz is ko:ld li:p hil; deet 
was where they were going that day, since Storm had 
zvas hzvea dei wa: gouiy deet dei, sins sto:m had 
not been there yet. “I’m looking forward to getting 
not bi:n dea jet. “aim lukiy fo:zvad ta getiy 
up into the hills,” Storm said as they sat in the bus. 
Ap into da hilz” sto.m sed as dei seet in da b.\s. 
“I don't find flat country very interesting — the same 
“ai dount faind fleet kAntri veri intristiy — da seim 
wherever you look. In the hills, on the other hand, 
hzvear'eva ju: Ink. in da hilz, on di Ada heend, 
the country changes all the time, and there's always 
da kAntri tfeindyz o:l da taim, an das o:lzvas 
something new to be seen. Hallo! What was that?” 
SAinpiy — nju: ta bi: si:n. ha'lou! hzvot zvas deet?” 
he suddenly cried out, as the bus threw them over to 
hi: sAdnli krciid ciut, as da bAS pru: dam onva ta 
one side and then stopped. They had just come round 
zvaji said and den stopt. dei had d^Ast kAm raund 
a curve in the road and had nearly run into an old 
a ka:v in da roud and had niali rAti intu an ould 
606 
The Fifty-Fifth (55th) Chapter. 
car that was standing in the road. “That was a near 
ka: ddt zvdz stccndiy in dd road. “dcet Wdz d nid 
thing,” Marion said. “If the driver hadn’t been so 
/>*//,” mceridn sed. “if dd draivd hcednt bi:n sou 
quick in using the brakes and stopping the bus, there 
kwik in ju:ziy dd breiks dn stopiy dd bAs, df.d 
would no doubt have been an accident. Look at the 
zvdd non dant hdv bi:n dn ceksiddnt. Ink dt dd 
cloud of dust that the wheels made!” 
klaud dv d\st ddt dd hwi: Iz meid!” 
“This is one of the new buses with brakes both on the 
“dis iz w\n dv dd nju: bAsiz wid breiks boup on dd 
front wheels and on the back wheels; that’s why she she — the bus 
fr\nt hwi:Iz dnd jn dd back 1nvi:lz; dcets Invar ji: 
was able to stop so quickly when I put the brakes on,” 
zvdz eibl td stop sou kwikli hwen ai put dd breiks on” 
the driver said proudly, as he started the bus again. 
d? draiz'd sed praudli, dz hi: sta.tid dd bAS d'gein. 
“If it had been one of the old ones,” he continued, 
“if it hdd bi:n zvah dv di ould zvahz,” hi: kdn'tinju:d, 
“I’m afraid we should now all have been lying in the 
“aim d'frcid zvi: fdd nan j: 1 hdv bi:n laiiy in dd 
dirty water in the ditch at the side of the road — bus, 
dd:ti wj:tdr in dd ditf dt dd said dv dd roud — bAS, 
passengers, car, and all, and this just because some 
pcesind^dz, ka:, dnd j: 1, dn dis d$Ast bi'koz saih 
farmer leaves his car in such a foolish place as a curve 
fa:md li:vz hiz ka:r in sAtf d ficlif pleis dz d kd:v 
15 . 2 
607 
Chapter Fifty-Five (55). 
in the road! Well, I’ve never run my bus into the 
in da road! wel, aiv nevd rxn mat bxs inla dd 
certain = sure 
ditch yet, and if I can help it, I never shall!” “I’m 
ditf jet, and if ai kan help it,ai nevd feel!” “aim 
quite certain he never will,” Storm said to Marion; 
kwait sa:tn hi: neva wil” storm sed ta nice ri an; 
“he seems to be an extremely clever driver.” 
“hi: si:mz ta bi: an iks'trinuli kleva draiva” 
“Well, this seems to be where we’re to get off,” Storm 
“zvel, dis si: m2 ta bi: hive a wia ta get a:f” sta:m 
said a few minutes later, as the bus stopped at the 
sed a fju: minits leita, az da b\s stapt at da 
bottom of a hill. “Yes, this is Leith Hill,” Marion 
batam av a hil. “jes, dis iz li:p hil /’ mcerian 
replied. “Can you see the tower at the top of the hill? 
ri\plaid, “kan ju: si: da tauar at da tap av da hil: 
The hill isn’t quite 1,000 feet high, but now that 
da hil iznt kwait a pauzand fi:t hai, bat nau dat 
the tower has been built, it may be said with some 
da tana haz bi:n bilt, it mei bi: sed wid s.\in 
truth that it is 1,000 feet from the bottom of the 
tru:p dat it iz a pauzand fi:t fram da batam av da 
hill to the top. — It is certainly good to walk about 
hil ta da tap. — it iz sa:tnli gad ta wa:k a'baut 
a bit after sitting in the bus for so long,” Marion 
a bit a:fta sitiy in da bxs fa sou lay,” mcerian 
continued, as she got out of the bus. “And now I 
kantinju.d, az fi. gjt aut av da bxs. “an nau ai 
608 
The Fifty-Fifth (55th) Chapter. 
suggest that first of all we walk over to that farm and 
sa'd^est ddt fa:st av a:l wi: wa:k ouva ta dcct fa:m an 
have a cup of tea to wash away the dust from our 
hcev a k\p av ti: ta zvaf a'wei da dAst fram ciua 
throats before we start on our walk. It hasn’t rained 
prouts hi'fa: zvi: sta:t an aua wa:k. it hceznt reind 
for two weeks, so there must have been at least an 
fa tu: wi:ks, sou Sea mast hav bi:n at li:st an 
inch of dust on the road for the wheels of the bus to 
inf av dAst an da roud fa da hwi:lz av da bAS ta 
send flying in clouds.” “Did you say tea at the farm?” 
send flaiiy in klaudz” “did ju: sei ti: at da fa:m?” 
Storm asked. “Yes, in many places in the country 
sta.ni a:skt. “jes, in meni pleisiz in da kAntri 
where tourists come,” she answered, “the farmers’ wives 
him: a tuarists k\ m,” fi: a:nsad, “da fa:maz waivz 
serve tea with home-made bread and cake, and they 
sa:v ti: wid hoummeid bred an keik, an dei 
do so here, too.” 
du: sou hia } tu:.” 
The farm-house was a long, low building made of red 
da 'fa:m [ haus waz a lay, lou bildiy meid av red 
brick. At one side there was a building for the animals, 
brik. at waii said dea waz a bildiy fa di cenimalz, 
also of red brick, and at the other side was a nice 
a:lsou av red brik, and at di Ada said waz a nais 
garden, surrounded by a wooden fence, where tea was 
ga:dn, sa'raundid bai a wudn fens , hwea ti: waz 
609 
Chapter Fifty-Five (55). 
served. “I wonder where the gate is in this fence?” 
sa:vd. “ai WAndd hwra da geit is in dis fens?” 
Marion said, as they walked along the side of the 
mcerian sed, as dei wo:kt a'loy da said av da 
garden towards the house. “There must be some way 
ga.dn ta'wo.ds da haus. (( dea niASt bi: s\m wei 
of getting into the garden.” 
av getiy inta da ga:dn” 
Not until they came all the way up to the farm-house, 
not An'til dei keim o:l da wei Ap ta da ‘ fa:m l haus, 
did they find the gate. Just as they were going to 
did dei faind da geit. d$Ast as dei wa: gouitj tu 
open it, the farmer's wife came out with a basket full 
oupan it, da fa.maz waif keim aut wid a ba.skit ful 
of corn and started feeding the corn to the fowls 
av ko:n and sta.tid fi:diy da ko:n ta da faulz 
running about in front of the house. When she called, 
rAniy a'baut in frAnt av da haus. hwen fi: ko:ld, 
they hurried up to her as fast as their legs and their 
dei hArid Ap ta ha: az fa:st az dea leg jr and dea 
wings would carry them. One little brown hen 
wiyz wad kceri dam. zvau litl braun hen 
especially seemed to be very hungry; it tried to fly 
is'pefali si:md ta bi: vert hAygri; it traid ta flai 
up to the basket to get as near to the corn as possible. 
A P td &a ba.skit ta get as nia ta da ko:n az posabl. 
There were several kinds of fowls, and among them 
dea wa. sevral kaindz av faulz, and am Ay dam 
610 
The Fifty-Fifth (55th) Chapter. 
they also saw a turkey. “Look at that funny fellow 
dei jilsou so: a ta:ki. “Ink at beet f.xni felou 
over there,” Marion said. “He looks as if he owned 
ouva bed,” mcerian sed. “hi: Inks az if hi: ound 
the whole place — so proud. And then he's going 
da houl pleis — sou praud. an den hi:z gouiy 
to end his life on somebody's Christmas table, no doubt. 
tu end his laif an s\mbadis krismas teibl, nou daut. 
Listen to the strange noise he's making. Isn't he funny? 
lisn ta da streind 3 noiz hi:s meikiy. isnt hi: fxnif 
I must always laugh when I see turkeys; they look 
ai mast o:lwaz la:f hwen ai si: ta.kiz; dei luk 
so much like little old, foolish, proud men.” 
sou niAtf laik litl ould, fu:lif, praud men.” 
“Good afternoon,” she said to the farmer’s wife, who 
“gud x a:fta x nu:n” fi: sed ta da fa:maz waif, hu: 
had now finished feeding the fowls. “Could you make 
had nan finift fi:diy da faiilz. “had ju: meik 
us a cup of tea?” “Yes, certainly,” the woman 
as a k\p av ti“jes . sa.tnli” da wuman 
answered. “If you'll go into the garden and wait, it 
a:usad. “if ju:l gou inta da ga:dn an zveit, it 
will be ready in a few minutes.” “Fine! But might 
zvil hi: rcdi in a fju: minits” “fain! bat mait 
I look about a bit while we’re waiting?” Storm asked. 
ai Ink a'baiit a bit hzmil zvia weitiy?” sto:m a:skt. 
“You see, I’ve never visited an English farm before, 
‘ju: si:, aiv neva visitid an iyglif fa:m bi'fj:, 
611 
Chapter Fifty-Five (55). 
and I’m interested in seeing whether there’s much 
and aim intristid in si:irj hwedd daz mAtf 
difference between your farms and the farms of the 
difrdns bi'twi:n jo: fa:mz on 3d fa:mz av 3a 
country that I come from.” “Certainly! Look about 
kxntri Sat ai k\m from ” (( sa:tnli! Ink a'baut 
as much as you like. But be careful when you go over 
az mAtj az ju: laik. bat bi: keaful hwen ju: gou ouva 
Pty 
to the animals, for we’ve got a young pig running 
ta 3i animate, fa wi:v got a jAtj pig rAniy 
about loose, and he might brush against your clothes. 
a'baut lu:s, an hi: mait brAf a'geinst jo: kloudz. 
Pigs, you know, aren’t always so clean. He really 
pigz, ju: non, a:nt o:lwaz sou kli:n. hi: riali 
shouldn’t be loose any longer, but ought to be shut 
fudnt bi: lu:s eni loyga, bat o:t ta bi: jAt 
fat = the opposite 
of thin 
up with the other pigs — you can see the five fat pigs 
Ap wid 3i ASa pigz — ju: kan si: 3a faiv fat pigz 
in there. He runs about so much that he doesn’t grow 
in dsa. hi: rAnz a'baut sou mAtj Sat hi: dAznt grou 
fat like the others. He’s such a funny littlje pig, putting 
fat laik 3i Adaz. hi:z SAtf a fAni litl pig , putiy 
his nose into everything to see what it is, and the 
hiz nouz intu evripiy ta si: hwot it iz , an da 
children have such a good time playing with him that 
tfildran hav SAtf a gud taim pleiiy wiS him dat 
my husband hasn’t had the heart to shut him up with 
mai hAzband haznt had da ha:t ta fAt him Ap wid 
612 
The Fifty-Fifth (55th) Chapter. 
the others yet. But you can see for yourselves that 
di Adaz jet. bat ju: kan si: fa ja:'selvz dat 
he’s much too thin; by now, he ought to be almost 
hi:z niAtf tu: pin; bai nau, hi: o:t ta bi: adrnoust 
twice as fat! Well,” she continued, picking up two 
twais az feet! ivel” fi: karitinju:d, pikiy a p tu: 
empty buckets that were standing outside the kitchen 
emti bAkits dat wa: stcendiy autsaid da kit jin 
door, “I’d better go to the pump now and get the 
da:, “aid beta gou ta da pAinp nau an get da 
water for your tea.” 
K'j.ta fa jo: ti:” 
“Aren’t the buckets heavy for you to carry?” Marion 
“a: nt da bAkits Jievi fa ju: ta kceri?” mcerian 
asked. “No, that’s nothing to speak of. But in my 
a:skt. “non, deets nApiy ta spi:k ov. bat in mai 
grandmother’s time the work of a farmer’s wife was 
grcendniidaz taim da wa:k av a fa:maz waif waz 
hard. They didn’t have a pump at the farm then, 
haul. dei didnt luev a pAmp at da fa:m den, 
but had to walk quite a long distance to a small 
bat heed ta zaa:k kwait a lay distans tu a sma:l 
brook to get water. Of course, the water in a brook 
bruk ta get wa:ta. av ka:s, da wa:tar in a bruk 
coming down from the hills is always very fine, but 
kAtniy daun fram da hilz iz a.lwaz veri fain, bat 
it really was too far to go to get water. If you’re 
it riali waz tu: fa: ta gou ta get wa:ta. if jua 
pump 
613 
Chapter Fifty-Five (55). 
around = about 
a bit "= a short 
time 
oak 
He spreads, he 
spread, he has 
spread \sfirni.::, 
■V 'red, sprat j. 
614 
going up Leith Hill, you will cross the brook on your 
gouty .\p l!:p hip ju: wil kras da bruk an ja: 
way up. The path from here to the top of the hill 
wei Ap. da pa:p fram hi a ta da tap av da hil 
passes the brook at a place where the brook is so 
pa:siz da bruk at a plcis hwea da bruk iz sou 
narrow that you can cross it in one step.” “Isn’t 
nccrou dat ju: kan hr as it in wah step” (C iznt 
there a road up the hill from the main road?” Storm 
dar o roud Ap da hil fram da mein roud?” sta:m 
asked. “Yes,” she answered, “but you had better go 
a:skt. “jcs” Ji: cr.nsad, “bat ju: had beta gou 
by the path through the wood. It’s a much nicer 
bai da pa:p pru: da wud. its a niAtf rniisa 
way and not so full of dust as the road.” After 
wei an nat sou ful av d\st az da roud” a:fta 
having looked around for a bit, Marion and Storm 
Incviy lukt a'round far a bit, mccrian and sta:m 
went into the garden to have their tea. The garden 
went inta da ga:dn ta heev dea ti:. da go:dn 
was small and well kept, with three or four tables 
zcaz sma:l and wet kept, wid pri: a fa: teiblz 
for the guests. They chose a table in the corner, 
fa da gests. dei tfouz a teibl in da ka:tta, 
under a very large old oak tree. ^The old oak spread 
Andar a veri lo:d 3 ould ouk tri:. di ould ouk spred 
its branches far out on all sides and gave a lovely, 
its bra: nfiz fa:r out an a:l suidz and geiv a l.wli. 
The Fifty-Fifth (55th) Chapter. 
cool shade for them to sit in. In the leaves and the 
ku:l feid fa dam ta sit in. in da li:vz and da 
branches above their heads they saw birds busily flying 
bra: n f iz a'b.w dca beds dei sa: ba:dz bizili flaiiij 
in and out, and some of them flew away to return a 
in and aut, and s.\m av darn flu: a'zvei ta ri'ta.n a 
little later with food for their young. 
litl Icita wid fu:u fa dr a 'jaij. 
“Look there, on that branch over there,” Marion said. 
“Ink dr a, an dcct brarnf ouva deaf 3 nucrian sed. 
— “No, not so high up, just above the fence. There’s 
— “non, nat sou hoi \p, d$Ast a'b.w da fens. daz 
a nest there; I wonder if there are young birds in it?” 
a nest dr a; ai \CAiidar if dra j\ij ba:dz in it? 33 
“No, but there’s a bird sitting on eggs, I think,” Storm 
"non. bat daz a haul sitij an egz, ai piyk” stann 
replied. “And that busy little fellow coming now 
ri'plaid. “an d(Ct bizi litl felon kAiniy turn 
seems to be carrying food to her. Listen to him ; 
si:mz ta bi: kceriij fu:d tu ha:. lisn ta him. 
singing out to all the world what a clever fellow he 
siijiij nut tu a:l da 70a:Id Incat a klcva felon hi: 
is!” 
“Do you think that is 
what he’s doing?” 
Marion 
iz!” 
“dit: ju: fijk dcct iz 
Incat hi:z 
diciij?” 
mcerian 
asked. 
“Well, perhaps you’] 
re right. 
Now, I thought 
n:sbt. 
“ivel, pa'beeps jua 
rait. 
nan, ai 
pa:t 
he was being the little gentleman, singing to keep her 
hi: icaz bi:iy da litl dyntlman, siijitj ta ki:p ha: 
ties? 
615 
Chapter Fifty-Five (55). 
company. But, of course, you must have a better 
k .\mp dm. bat, av ka:s, ju: mast hcev a be tar 
understanding of the stronger sex than I. And men 
a nda'stcendiy av da strayga seks dan ai. an men 
do like to talk about themselves.” Here the farmer’s 
du: laik ta ta:k a'baut dam'selvz.” hia da fa:maz 
wife interrupted them, bringing a tray with the tea- 
zvaif int a'r Apt-id dam, briyiy a trei wid da ti:- 
things. She spread a pretty, green-and-brown cloth 
piyz. fi: spred a priti, gri.nandbraun klap 
on the table, put cups, plates, cake, bread-and-butter, 
an da teibl, put k\ps, pleits, keik, bredn'b.xta , 
marmalade, and tea on the table, and then left them 
mannaleid, and ti: an da teibl, and den left dam 
to themselves again. 
ta dam'selvz a'gein. 
“She’s really a pretty woman — to speak of something 
u fi:z riali a priti zoitman — ta spi:k av s.\mpiy 
else,” said Storm, spreading marmalade on a piece of 
els” scd sta:m, sprediy ma.malcid an a pi:s av 
bread. “Don’t you think so?” “Yes, if she wasn’t 
bred. “dount ju: piyk sou/” “jes, if fi: zuaznt 
quite so fat, one might almost call her beautiful,” Marion 
lx'wait sou feet, zo.xn mait a.lmoust ka:l ha: bju.taful,” mcerian 
answered. “But they get too many good things to eat 
a: ns ad. u bat dei get tit: meni gud piyz tu i:t 
here in the country, I suppose. Let’s take a picture 
hiar in da kAntri, ai sa'pouz. lets teik a piktjar 
616 
The Fifty-Fifth (55th) Chapter. 
of her when she comes for her money! 
av ha: hwen ft: k.\mz fa hd: niAni! 
your camera along, didn’t you?” 
ja: kcemara a'lay, didnt ju:?” 
You did bring 
ju: did briij 
“Yes, I’ve got the camera here in my pocket. I’m 
“jes, aiv gat da kcemara hiar in mai pakit. aim 
camera 
going to try to get a picture of one of the bees, too, 
gouiy ta trai ta get a piktfar av w\n av da bi:z, tu:, 
that are flying round these flowers all the time. If 
dat a: flaiiy raund di:z flauaz a:l da taim. if 
I could get very near to a bee, it would make an 
at had get veri nia tu a bi:, it wad meik an 
interesting picture, I think. I’d like one of the bird, 
intristiy piktfa, ai piyk. aid laik wav av da ba:d, 
too, just when he’s spreading his wings to fly. But 
tu:, d^Ast hwen hi:z sprediy Itiz iviyz ta flai. bat 
a picture like that will be hard to get, I’m afraid; they 
a piktfa laik deet wil bi: ha:d ta get, aim a'freid; dei 
move their wings so quickly. — And when we have 
nuev dr.a wiyz sou kwikli. — an hwen wi: hav 
mounted to the top of the hill, I’m going to take a 
mount id ta da tap av da hil , aim gouiy ta teik a 
picture of you, too, with your pretty head against the 
piktfar av ju:, tu:, wid ja: priti hed ageinst da 
blue sky.” 
bin: skai” 
“Don’t be foolish!” Marion laughed. “You had better 
“dount bi: fu:lif!” mcerian la:ft. “ju: had beta 
617 
Chapter Fifty-Five (55). 
take a picture of the river Thames flowing quietly 
teik a piktfar av da viva tcniz flouiy kwaiatli 
towards London down in the bottom of its valley. 
ta'waulz l And an daun in da bat am av its vceli. 
That's something worth seeing. 5 ' “I can see rivers that 
dccts SAinpiy wa:p si:iy” “ai kan si: rivaz dat 
flow through valleys wherever there are hills and rivers 
flou pru: vccliz hwear'eva dea hilz an rivaz 
in the world, but I don't know how often I may see 
in da iva:ld, bat ai daunt non hau a:fn oi mei si: 
your sweet face yet,’ 5 Storm replied. “Don’t say such 
ja: swi:t feis jet” sta:ni ri'plaid. “dount sei sAtj 
things; the farmer’s wife might hear you. Look, she’s 
piyz; da fa:niaz waif mait hid jit:. Ink. fi:z 
laughing at us,” Marion said, trying not to smile. “No, 
la.fiy cet as” nicer ion sed, traiiy not ta stnail. “non, 
she isn’t,” Storm answered, “she’s smiling kindly at us. 
//: iznt” sta:m cr.nsad, (C )i:z smoiliy kaindli cet as. 
‘All the world loves a lover,’ you know. She’s seen 
*a:l da wa:ld Iavz a Lwa jn: non. ji:z si:n 
do try = please try 
long ago how I feel about you. — Now, do try to be 
lay a'gou hau ai fi:l a bant ju:: — nau, du: trai ta bi: 
serious, Marion, just for a few minutes while I tell you 
siarias, nucrian, d$Ast far a fju: ininits hwail ai tel jn: 
about this.” “But I don’t want to be serious now, not 
a'baut dis.” “bat ai dount want ta bi: siarias nan, not 
with people standing about, looking at us, at least,” 
wid pi:pl stcendiy a'baut, lukiy cet as, at li:st” 
618 
The Fifty-Fifth (55th) Chapter. 
Marion cried, jumping up from her chair. “Pm going 
mceridn kraid, d^Ampiy \p fram ha: tfea. “ aim gouiy 
to run all the way to the top of the hill. Catch me 
ta r\n a:l da wei ta da tap av da hil. kcetj mi: 
if you can!” So saying, she ran through the garden 
if ju: keen!” sou seiiy, fi: roan pru: da ga:dn 
gate and started off along the path. Storm had to pay 
geit and sto:tid a:f a'lay da pa:p. sta:m heed ta pei 
for their tea before he could run after her, so when 
fa dca ti: bi'fa: hi: had vah a:fta ha:, sou hwen 
he left the farm, he could no longer see her. “Well, 
Jti: left da fa:in, hi: had non layga si: ha:. “wel, 
she must be somewhere along this path,” he said to 
fi: inAst bi: SAinhwear a'lay dis pa:p,” hi: sed ta 
himself, and started off. He hadn’t walked far, how- 
h ini' self, and sta:tid a:f. hi: hcednt wa.kt fa:, hau- 
ever, before he heard her calling his name. But he 
1 eva . bi'fa: hi: haul ha: ka:liy his neim. bat hi: 
couldn’t see her anywhere. “Where are you?” he called. 
kudnt si: ha:r enihwea. “hwear a: ju:?” hi: ko:ld. 
“Here,” she answered, laughing, and her voice sounded 
"hia,” fi: a:nsad, lo:fiy, and ha: vais saundid 
quite near, although he could still see nothing but trees 
kwait nia, a.l'dou hi: kad stil si: nApiy bat tri:s 
all round. 
a:l round. 
Then he began to look behind trees and up into the 
den hi: bi'gcen ta ink bi'haind tri:s and Ap inta da 
619 
Chapter Fifty-Five (55). 
branches, hoping to find her there. “Call again,” he 
bra.nfis, houpiy ta faind hd: dea. “ko:l a'gein,” hi: 
cried, and this time he could hear that her voice came 
kraid, and dis tciim hi: kad hia dat. ha: vais keim 
from one of the ^>ig old oaks standing by the path. She 
framwAnav da big ould ouks stcendiy bai da pa:p. ji: 
had found a hole in a hollow tree, big enough for her 
had found a houl in a halou tri:, big i'n\f fa ha: 
to get in through. When he found her, he saw that 
ta get in pru:. Jvwen hi: found ha:, hi: sa: dat 
there was almost room enough inside the hollow tree 
dea was admoust ru:m in\f insaid da halou tri: 
for six people, or for two armchairs, as Marion suggested. 
fa siks pi:pi, a: fa tu: 'a:m'tfeas, as mcerian sa'd^estid, 
“But now comes the difficult part of it,” Marion said. 
<( bat nau k\ms da difikalt po:t av it,” mcerian sod. 
“How am I going to get out of here again? When I 
U hau am ai gouiy ta get out av Jiiar a'grin/ hwcn ni 
was standing outside, I could reach a branch above the 
was stcendiy out'said, ai kad ri:tf a bru:nf a'b.w da 
hole, but when I had got in, I found that the bottom 
hotd, bat hwen ai had gat in, ai found dat da bat am 
of the hole inside the tree was deeper than I thought. 
av da houl insaid da tri: ivas di:pa dan ai pa:t. 
I shouldn’t like to get a hole in my new frock, getting 
ai fudnt laik ta get a houl in rnai nju: frak, getiy 
out. Will you help me, please?” she asked. 
aut. wil ju: help mi:, pli:s?” fi: a:skt. 
The Fifty-Fifth (55th) Chapter. 
“Not until you’ve listened to what I want to tell you, 
“nat .\n'til ju:v lisnd td hwjt ai want td tel ju:, 
young lady,” Storm laughed. “Oh, I don’t think you’re 
]\y] leidi” sta:m la:ft. “on, ai donut piyk jud 
nice at all,” Marion said. “In the old days, true gentle- 
nais at a:l,” mcerian sed. “in di ould deiz, tru: d^entl- 
men who were asked to help ladies in danger always 
man ha: zva:r a:skt ta help leidiz in deind^a a:lwaz 
mounted their horses at once and rode off to bring help 
mount-id dca ha:siz at waus an roud a:f ta briy help 
without talking first.” 
zvid'aut ta:kiy fa:st” 
“That’s all very well, but it only takes us away from 
“dcets a:l veri zvel, bat it ounli teiks as a'wei fram 
what we were talking about when you left me so 
Invat wi: zva: tj:kiy a'baut hwen ju: left mi: sou 
suddenly. What was it I was going to say when you 
SAdnli . hwat waz it ai waz gouiy ta sei hwen ju: 
ran off? — Oh, yes, now I know. Will you marry me?” 
rcen o:ff — ou, jes, nan ai non. wil ju: mceri mi:?” 
“Is that your price for helping me out?” Marion asked 
“iz dcet ja: prais fa helpiy mi: aut?” mcerian a:skt 
with a smile. “I’m afraid it is,” he answered very 
zc dd a srnail. “aim a'freid it iz” hi: a: ns ad veri 
seriously. “Oh, well — then I shall have to, I suppose,” 
siariasli . “ou, zvel — den ai fal hcev tu, ai sa'pouz” 
Marion said. With a laugh, he lifted her out of her 
mcerian sed. wid a la:f, hi: lift-id ha:r aut av ha: 
621 
Chapter Fifty-Five (55). 
hollow tree, and arm in arm they continued up the 
halou tri:, and a:ni in a:m dei kan'tinju:d a p da 
hill. A little higher up, they came to the brook that 
Jiil. a lit / haiar Ap, dei keim ta da bruk dat 
the farmer’s wife had spoken of. Here some,of the 
da fa:wac waif had spoukn av. hia saiii av da 
roots of the trees were above the ground, and in some 
ru:ts av da tri:z wa:r a'b.w da ground, and in saiii 
places the water of the brook had washed the earth 
pleisiz da wa:tar av da bruk had waft di a:p 
away round the roots, so that they lay like brown, wet 
a'zvei round da ru:ts, sou dat dci lei laik braun, zvet 
snakes on the ground. “Let me help you to jump 
snciks an da ground. (i let mi: help ju: ta d^.xnip 
across,” Storm said to Marion. “It’s a little wider here 
a'kras,” sta:m sed ta imerian. (i its a litl waida hia 
than I thought, and I'm afraid that your feet will slip 
dan oi pa:t, and aim a'freid dat ja: fi:t wil slip 
on the wet stones.” She took Storm’s hand, and it 
an da zvet stounz” fi: tuk stamiz hand, and it 
was a good thing that she did, for just as she was 
zvaz a gud pig dat fi: did, fa d$Ast az fi: waz 
going to jump, her foot slipped, and she would have 
gouiij ta d^Ainp, ha: fut slipt, and fi: zvad hav 
fallen if he had not supported her. 
fa:ln if hi: had nat sa'pa:tid Jia:. 
At last they reached the top of the hill, where the 
at la:st dei ri.tft da tap av da hil, hzvea da 
622 
The Fifty-Fifth (55th) Chapter. 
tower stood. “Doesn’t it cost anything to go up 
tana stud. “d\snt it hast enip'uj ta you .\p 
there?” Storm asked. “No, it’s quite free,” Marion 
dra?” sta:m a:skt. “non, its kzvait fri:/ 3 mccrian 
answered. “It’s funny — you’re not the first foreigner 
cr.nsad. “its f\ni — jua not da fa:st farina 
I’ve heard ask that question. Does it seem so strange 
aiv ha:d a:sh dcut kwcstfan. d\s it si:m sou streind 3 
to you that it should be free of charge?” “Oh, I 
la ju: dat it fad bi: fri: av tfaid^?” “ou, ai 
don’t know,” he answered. “But you are usually 
daunt non,” hi: cr.nsad. :( bat ju: a: ju.^uali 
surprised, as a tourist, to find something that is free 
sapraizd , az a tuarist, ta faind SAmpiy dat is fri: 
of charge.” 
av tfa:d$” 
“Now, let’s go up,” he continued, mounting the narrow 
“nan. Jets you Ap” hi: kan'tinjir.d, mountiy da ncerou 
stairs of the tower. “Look, out there, at the bottom 
straz av da tana. “Ink\ out dea, at da batam 
of the valley, is the Thames,” Marion said. “It looks 
av da vceli, iz da tcmz” m (Brian scd. “it Inks 
no bigger than a brook from here, so it must be farther 
non biya dan a bruk fram hi a, sou it mast bi: fa:dar 
away than I thought,” Storm replied. “And what is 
a'wci dan ai pa:t,” sta:m ri'plaid. “an Inoat iz 
that white spot over there on the hill — is it a tent, 
dcct Jnoait spat ouva dear an da hit — is it a tent. 
15/3 
623 
Chapter Fifty-Five (55). 
I wonder?” “No, it’s too big for that. I think it is 
ai w\nda?” “non, its tu: big fa dcet. ui piyk it ie 
chalk. Between London and the south coast there are 
tfj:k. bi'tu'i:n l.uidan an da saup koust dea 
many chalk hills. You can see the white chalk hills 
meni tja:k hile. ju: ban si: da hwciit tfj:b hile 
from the boat, when you cross the Channel, coming 
frani da bout, hwen ju: bras da tfcenl, k\mifj 
from France to England. But I think there really is 
fram fra:ns tu iygland. bat ai piyk dea riali ie 
a tent down there, at the foot of the hill.” 
a tent daun dea, at da fut av da hil” 
“What fun those fellows must be having! I’ve often 
“liwat f\n done fclone mast bi: heeviy! arc o:fn 
lived in a tent myself at home, with one or two of my 
livd in a tent inaPself at houm, wid w.ui a tu: av mai 
friends. It’s a fine way to spend your holidays,” 
frende. its a fain wei ta spend jj: lulidie 
Storm said. “Is it?” Marion asked. “It seems to 
sta:m sed. “ie itf” nicerian a:skt. “it si:me ta 
me that it must be a rather cold and wet affair. A 
mi: dat it mast bi: a ra:da kould an wet a'fra. a 
tent is a poor cover when it rains.” “Not if the tent 
tent ie a pua kwa hwen it reined’ “not if da tent 
is made of good canvas,” Storm replied. “Mine is 
ie meid av gud k<znvas,”~^stj:m rP plaid. “main ie 
made of the same kind of canvas as they use for tents 
meid av da senn kaind av kcenvas ae dei ju:e fa tents 
624 
The Fifty-Fifth (55th) Chapter. 
in the army, and I’m sure you couldn’t wish for a 
in di a:mi, dnd aim fua ju: kudnt zvif far a 
better cover against the rain than my tent. I once 
beta kwvar a'geinst da rein dan mai tent. ax zv\ns 
slept in it when it was raining hard; outside, the water 
slept in it hwen it waz reiniy ha:d; 'aut'said, da zvo:ta 
was pouring down on the roof of the tent, but, inside, 
zuaz po:riy daun on da ru:f av da tent, bat, 'in'said, 
it was quite dry.” 
it zvaz kzvait drai” 
“Well, I’m glad I don’t live in a tent, all the same,” 
“zvel, aim glced ai dount liv in a tent, o:l da seim,” 
Marion said. “I hope we shan’t have to live in one 
nuerian sed. “ai houp wi: fa:nt hcev ta liv in w\n 
when we’re married. I’m a great lover of nature, but 
hzven zvia nuerid. aim a greit lAvar av neitja, bat 
I do prefer to be able to return to a house with a 
ai da: pri'fa: ta bi: eibl ta ri'tarn tu a haus zvid a 
kitchen and a bathroom, and with warm and com- 
kitfin and a ba:prum, an zvid zvo:m an ItAm- 
fortable rooms, when I’ve been out all day with the 
fatabl ru:ms, hzven aiv bi:n aut o:l dei zvid da 
rain pouring down.” 
rein po:riy daun” 
“You’d never make a good farmer’s wife,” Storm told 
“ju:d neva meik a gad fa:maz zvaif,” sto:m tould 
her. “No, but am I going to be one?” she smiled. “I 
ha:. e( nou, bat cem ai gouty ta bi: zvxn?” ji: smaild. “ai 
wish for = want 
pour = rain very 
hard 
625 
Chapter Fifty-Five (55). 
never knew you had a farm at home.” “I haven’t, 
neva nju: ju: had a fa:m at houm” “ai havnt, 
but I’m a great lover of nature, and not just for a 
bat aim a greit lwar av neitfa, an not d^Ast far a 
forest = very big 
wood 
day! I should like to walk for miles in a forest, with 
dei! ai fad laik ta wo:k fa mails in a forist, wid 
no other company than the animals.” “Not even me?” 
non Ada kAmpani dan di animals.” “not i:van mi:?” 
Marion interrupted. “No, you’d rather stay at home 
mcerian inta'rAptid. “non, ju:d ra:da stei at houm 
and play in the kitchen or lie in the bath all day, you 
an plei in da kit fin o: lai in da ba:p o:l dei, ju: 
just told me,” he laughed. 
d^Ast tould mi:,” hi: la:ft. 
Hand in hand, they ran down the path towards the 
hand in hand, dei ran daun da pa:p ta'wo:ds da 
farm again. At the hollow tree Storm stopped to ask 
fa:m a'gein. at da holou tri: sto:m stopt tu a:sk 
Marion if she was still willing to become his wife. 
marian if fi: was stil wilhj ta bi'kAm his waif. 
“If not, I had better put you back into the tree,” he 
“if not, ai had beta put ju: bak inta da tri:,” hi: 
said to her. “Are you quite sure?” “Yes, quite 
sed ta ha:. “a: ju: kwait fua?” “jes, kwait 
certain,” she answered. “Even if I was a tired and 
sa:tn,” fi: a:nsad. “i.van if ai was a taiad an 
dirty farmer working all day in the fields to make 
da:ti fa:ma wa.kiy o:l dei in da fi'.lds ta meik 
626 
The Fifty-Fifth (55th) Chapter. 
the soil of our farm better and better, and raising 
da sail av aua fa:m betar an beta, an reiziy 
soil = earth 
cows and pigs and sheep, and you had to be a farmer’s 
kauz an pigz an ji:p, an ju: had ta bi: a fa:maz 
wife and raise hens and sell the eggs in the market 
waif an reiz henz an sel di egz in da ma.kit 
every Saturday?” 
evri scetadi?” 
“The way you say it, it sounds quite nice,” she 
“da wei ju: sei it, it saundz kwait nais,” ji: 
answered. “Do you think I could make enough money 
a.nsad. “du: ju: pirjk ai kad meik i y n\f mAni 
raising fowls to pay for a bathroom in our farm- 
reizitj faulz ta pei far a ba.prum in aua 'fa:m- 
house?” 
'bans?” 
They both laughed at this idea and continued their 
dei boup la:ft at dis ai'dia and kan'tinju:d dea 
way. They soon saw the red brick walls of the house 
wei. dei su:n sa: da red brik zva:lz av da haus 
again. The woman was standing at the window. A 
a'gein. da wurnan waz stcendiy at da windou. a 
broad, kind smile appeared on her face when she saw 
bra:d, kaind smail a'piad an ha: feis hzven ji: sa: 
Storm and Marion coming hand in hand. “There 
sta:m and mcerian kAiniy hcend in hand. “dea 
you see, Marion,” Storm said, “‘all the world loves 
ju: si:, mcerian” sta:m sed, (<i a:l da wa:ld Iavz 
627 
Chapter Fifty-Five (55). 
a lover.’ Just look at her face! You would think 
a Lwa/ d$ASt luk at hd: feis! ju: wad pifjk 
that I had asked her and not you to marry me.” 
ddt ai had a:skt ha: an not ju: ta rncari mi :/ 3 
WORDS: 
hill 
curve 
brake 
wheel 
dust 
ditch 
certain 
cake 
bottom 
brick 
fence 
gate 
fowl 
wing 
turkey 
end (verb) 
Pig 
fat 
pump 
bucket 
brook 
path 
oak 
spread 
above 
EXERCISE A. 
The highest of the — south of London is called Leith 
Hill. The bus in which Storm and Marion were riding 
came round a — in the road. The driver was so quick 
in using the — and stopping the bus that the — made 
a cloud of — behind it. Storm was quite — that the 
driver would never run his bus into the — at the side 
of the road. The bus stopped at the — of a hill. 
The farm-house was made of red —. The garden was 
surrounded by a wooden —. It was difficult to find 
the — in the fence. The farmer's wife started feeding 
corn to the —. They hurried up to her as fast as their 
legs and their — would carry them. Among the fowls 
there was a —. 
There was also a — which ran about so much that it 
did not grow — like the others. The farmer's wife went 
to the — to get her empty — filled with water. In her 
grandmother’s time they got water from a —. There 
was a — to Leith Hill through the wood. Storm and 
Marion sat down at a table under a large old — tree, 
which — its branches far out on all sides — their heads. 
On one of the branches there was a — with eggs in it. 
628 
The Fifty-Fifth (55th) Chapter. 
Storm had brought his — along and wanted to get a 
picture of one of the —, before they — to the top of the 
hill. The river Thames — in the bottom of a —. Marion 
had found a — in a — tree, big enough for her to get 
in through. In some places the water of the brook had 
washed the earth away round the —. Between London 
and the south coast there are many — hills. 
EXERCISE B. 
In chapter 52, Exercise D, you found a letter from Storm 
to Wood. We now ask you to answer this letter as if 
you were Wood. In writing your letter, the following 
words must be used in some way or other: stamp — 
collection — room — furniture — desk — armchair — 
new — tree — leaf — cold — rain — storm — spring. 
EXERCISE C. GRAMMAR. 
Look at the verbs in the following sentences: I visited 
my friend yesterday. John walked all the way to town 
the other day, and so did his sister. A month ago my 
uncle went to Paris. You will notice that the time of 
the verbs is before ‘now’; it is ‘yesterday’ in the first 
example given, ‘the other day’ in the second, and 
‘a month ago’ in the third. The form of the verb that 
expresses the time before ‘now’ we call the past [pa:st] 
tense. 
The past tense of two of the verbs in the sentences 
given above has been made by adding -ed to the form 
nest 
fellow 
camera 
bee 
mount 
flow 
valley 
hole 
hollow 
root 
slip 
chalk 
tent 
cover 
canvas 
forest 
soil 
nature 
lover 
free 
flat 
pretty 
raise 
charge 
around 
pour 
629 
Chapter Fifty-Five (55). 
of the infinitive: visited (visit-ed), walked (walk-ed). 
The past tense of most English verbs is made in this 
way. (But if they end in -e, only -d is added. Example: 
hope — hoped.) The past tense of ‘call’ is: I called, 
you called, he called, she called, it called, we called, 
you called, they called. You will see that the form 
is the same after all pronouns. 
The -ed is pronounced [/] after the voiceless sounds 
P, k, f, p, s . /. After the voiced consonants b, g, m, n, y, 
v , d, l, z, 3 , and after vowels, it is pronounced [d]. After 
t and d, the pronunciation is f id]. Examples: hoped 
\houpt\, thanked [pccykt], bathed [beidd], answered 
[a:nsdd\, started [sta:tid J, added [adid]. 
In writing, the following rules must be noticed: If a 
verb ends in a consonant followed by -y, it changes -y 
into i- before the -ed of the past tense is added. For 
instance, try — tried. 
But if a vowel comes before -y, the -y remains when -ed 
is added. For instance, stay — stayed. Only the verbs 
‘lay’, ‘pay’, ‘say 5 have ‘laid 5 , ‘paid 5 , ‘said 5 in the past 
tense. 
If a single consonant ends the verb, it is sometimes 
made double when -ed is added. The rules are seen 
from the following examples: 
explain-ed plan-ned 
answer-ed prefer-red 
Rule number one: The consonant always remains single 
when following two vowels. 
630 
The Fifty-Fifth (55th) Chapter. 
Rule number two: The consonant remains single after 
an unstressed \.\nstrest\ single vowel, but is made double 
after a stressed fjr/rrj/J single vowel. (The verb ‘prefer’ 
is pronounced with the stress \strcs] on the last syllable, 
-fer. We say that -fer is stressed or is pronounced with 
stress, and we show this by putting the mark 1 before the 
syllable: [pri'fa: |.) To this rule there is, however, the 
exception that -1 is made double even after an unstressed 
vowel. Example: travel-led. 
Notice that the past tense of ‘have’ is ‘had’. 
‘Be’ is the only verb that has two forms in the past 
tense: ‘was 5 and ‘were’. They are used in the following 
way: I was, you were, he was, she was, it was, we were, 
you were, they were. 
Questions: 
How is the past tense of most English verbs made? ... 
When is the -ed pronounced [t\ and when [</]? ... If a 
verb ends in -y in the infinitive, do you always change 
it into -i before -ed is added? ... When is a single 
consonant that ends a verb made double before -ed is 
added? ... When does it remain single? ... What are 
the two past tense forms of ‘be’? ... 
631 
