Chapter Fifty-Six (56). 
The Fifty-Sixth (56th) Chapter. 
THE LAND OF LIBERTY 
One evening, when Storm and Marshall had decided 
wah i:vnirj, hwen sta.m and nici:jal had di'saidid 
to stay at home and read, Storm asked Marshall about 
ta stei at ho uni and ri:d , sta:m a:skt ma.fal about 
some words in the book he was reading. “The book 
sam wa:dz in da buk hi: waz ri:dirj. “da buk 
is written in English, but yet it seems to me that it’s 
iz ritn in iijglif, bat jet it si:mz ta mi: dat its 
different from the English I’m used to,” Storm said. 
difrant fram di ijglif dim ju:st tu” sta:m sed. 
“Now take this word, for instance: ‘street-car’. It was 
“nan teik dis wa:d, far instans: i stri:tka:\ it waz 
not until I had met it several times that I discovered 
rut ah' til ai had met it sevral taimz dat ai it is'h Arad 
that it must mean a ‘tram’.” 
dat it mast mi:n a € treem 
“I’ll tell you why you find the language strange,” 
“ail tel ju: hum ju: faind da Ueygzuid 3 streind 3,” 
Marshall smiled. “It isn’t English at all; it’s American.” 
ma.fal smaild. “it iznt iyglif at a:l; its amcrikan 
“Oh, is it? I didn’t know that American was different 
“ou, iz it? ai didnt non dat a'merikan waz difrant 
from English,” Storm said. “Perhaps you will explain 
fram iyglif,” sta:m sed. “pa'hceps ju: zeil iks'plein 
The Fifty-Sixth (56th) Chapter. 
to me what these other words mean. I’ve made a list 
ta mi: hwat di:z Ada zva:dz mi:n. oiv nieid o list 
of all the words that were new to me, although I think 
av a:l da wa:dz dat wa: nju: ta mi:, a:Vdou ai pirjk 
I have discovered the meaning of some of them myself. 
ai hav disk wad da mi: nig av sahi ov dam mai'self. 
‘Railroad’, that must be the same as ‘railway’; and a 
‘ reilroud y , dcct mast bi: da seim az ‘reihvei 9 ; and a 
‘five-dollar bill’ is a ‘five-dollar note’, isn’t it?” “Yes, 
‘faivdala bil y iz a ‘faivdala nout y , iznt it?” “jes, 
that’s quite right,” Marshall answered. 
dccts kwait rait” ma:jal a.nsad. 
“And after a little hard thinking,” Storm continued, 
“and a:ftar a litl haul piykiy ” sto:m kan'tinju:d, 
“I found out that ‘baggage’ must be th.e same as 
“ai found out dat ( bcegid^ y mast bi: da seim az 
‘luggage’. But here are two that were too difficult for 
€ L\gid^ y . bat Jriar a: tu: dat zva: tu: difikalt fa 
me: What is a ‘subway’, and what does ‘depot’ mean?” 
mi:: hzvat iz a C s\bzvci y , an hwat d\z i di:pou y mi:n?” 
“What on earth have you been reading, since you have 
“hzvat an a:f> hav ju: bi:n ri:diy, sins ju: hav 
found such a strange collection of words?” Marshall 
found sAtf a streind$ ka'lckfan av wa:dz?” nia.fal 
asked. “A book about a young man who runs away 
o:skt. “a buk a'bout a jAij mcen hu: r\nz a'wei 
from home somewhere in Europe, goes to America, and 
fram hoiim SAinhwear in juarap , gouz tu a'merika, an 
travels all over the country.” 
trcevlz o:l ouva da k\ntri” 
“I thought it must be something about travelling,” 
“ai po:t it mast In: s Amply a'baut trcevliy,” 
Marshall said. “You see, all those words have some- 
ma:fal sed. “ ju : si:, o:l dons wa:ds hav sahi- 
thing to do with travelling. ‘Subway’ is the same as 
pit} ta du: wid trcevlhj. i SAbwei y iz da seim az 
our ‘Underground’; perhaps you remember from your 
ana ‘ Audagraund ’; pa'hceps ju: ri'memba frani jo: 
school-days that ‘sub’ is Latin for ‘under’; and ‘depot’ 
sku:ldeiz dat ‘ sAb ’ is lectin fa ( Atida y ; an *di:pou y 
is the American expression for ‘station’. They use the 
iz di a'merikan iks'prefan fa ( stcifan y . dci ju:z da 
word ‘station’, too, but just as America is rich in so 
waul i steifan y , tu:, bat d^\st az a'merika iz ritf in son 
many other ways, it is, as you see, also rich in 
meni Ada weiz, it iz, az ju: si:, o:lsou ritf in 
expressions.” 
iks'prefanz” 
has become such a great and rich country, aren't you 
haz bi'kwm SAtf a yrcit an ritf kAtitri, a:nt ju: 
English sorry sometimes that it’s no longer an English 
iyylif sori SAintaimz dat its non loygar an itjglij 
colony?” “We don’t think much about that nowadays,” 
kolani?” “zt n: dount piyk m.\tf a'baut deet nauadeisf ’ 
The Fifty-Sixth (56th) Chapter. 
Marshall answered. “And, besides, it really was our 
ma:fdl a:nsad. “an, bi'saidz, it riali waz auar 
own foolish generals and statesmen who lost our 
oun fu:lif d^enaralz an steitsman hit: last auar 
king, George the Third.” Storm: “How did it happen?” 
kiy, dy:d$ da pa:d” sta:m: “hau did it hcepn?” 
“The Americans were dissatisfied with many things, 
“di a'merikanz zaa: 'dis'scetisfaid wid meni. fiyz, 
and in many cases they had some cause to be dis- 
and in meni keisiz dei had sahi ka:z ta bi: 'dis¬ 
satisfied with the government of the colonies. There 
'sect is fa id laid da g.wanmant av da kalaniz. dea 
were great differences between life in England and life 
■ira: greit difransiz bi'twirn laif in iy gland an laif 
in the ‘New World*, and many of the men that England 
in da ‘ nju: zaa:ld\ an meni av da men dat iygland 
sent to America to look after her affairs had no under- 
sent tii a'merika ta Ink a:fta ha:r a'feaz had non Aiida- 
standing of this at all, but did many things that only 
1 steendiy av dis at a:l , bat did meni piyz dat ounli 
made the Americans more and more angry. 
meld di a'merikanz nu:r an ma:r ceygri. 
“What made them very angry, for instance, was the 
“hwat meid dam veri ceygri. far installs , zvaz da 
tax that was put on tea. England had just helped the 
tceks dat waz put an ti:. iy gland had d^.xst helpt da 
dissatisfied = not 
satisfied 
cause = reason 
tax = a kind of 
duty 
thirteen American colonies in a war with France, and 
pa:ti:n a'merikan kalaniz in a wa: nnd fra:ns, an 
now England wanted the colonies to help to pay for 
nan iygland wantid da kalaniz ta help ta pei fa 
the army. But the Americans said that as long as the 
di a:mi. bat di amerikanz sed dat az lay az da 
colonies had no representatives in the British Parliament, 
kalaniz had non repri'zentativz in da britif pa:lamant, 
Parliament had no right to put a tax on anything in the 
pu. laniant had non rait ta put a tceks an enipiy in da 
colonies. And quite right they were, I think.” 
kalaniz. an k'wait rait dei iea:, ai piyk.” 
“So do I,” Storm said. “But go on, please; I find it 
“son du: ai,” sta:m sed. “bat gon an, pli:z; ai faind it 
very interesting to hear an Englishman speaking about 
veri intristiij ta Jiiar an iyglifman spi.kiy a'baut 
‘the American question’ in this way.” “Do you really 
i di a'merikan kwestfan ’ in dis 7 vei” “du: ju: riali 
want me to tell you more about it?” Marshall asked in 
want mi: ta tel ju: ma:r a'baut it?” ma:fal u:skt in 
some surprise. “I thought you knew almost as much 
s.aui sa'praiz. “ai pa:t ju: nju: a:lmoust az niAtj 
see, I wasn’t very interested in history at school. When 
si:, ai waznt veri intristid in histari at sku:l. Jiwen 
preparing my lessons, I never read my history-book, 
pri'peariy mai lesnz, ai neva red max histaribuk, 
The Fifty-Sixth (56th) Chapter. 
and, consequently, I don’t know much history. The 
an, kansikwantli, cii dount non m\tj hist art. di 
only thing I really remember is something about a 
ounli piy ai riali ri'memba iz s\mpiy a'bant a 
tea-party.” 
ti:pa:ti. )} 
“The Boston tea-party! Well, I’ll give you a lesson 
“da bast an ti:pa:ti! wel, ail gw ju: a tcsn 
in history, then, and tell you about our war with 
in Jiistari, den, an tel ju: a'baut ana wa: wid 
America. When the Americans wouldn’t pay the tax 
a'merika. hzeen di a'merikanz wudnt pci da tccks 
that had been put on tea, and stopped drinking tea, 
dat had bi:n put an ti:, an stapt driykiy ti:, 
King George got very angry and sent over some ships 
kiy dy:d$ gat veri ecygri an sent ouva sain jips 
full of tea and told the Americans to buy the tea. 
ful av ti: an tould di a'merikanz ta bai da ti:. 
“But in the night, Americans dressed up as Indians 
(C bat in da naif, a'merikanz drest \p az indjanz 
went on board the ships and poured all the tea into 
went an ba:d da jips an pa:d a:l da ti: inta 
the harbour. That was the ‘tea-party’ you remembered. 
da lia:ba. dcut waz da c ti:pa:ti ’ ju: ri'membad. 
Soon after this action open war broke out between 
su:n> a:fta dis cekfan oupan ica: brouk ant bi'twi.n 
action = act 
America and England, a war that was to end in making 
a'merika and iygland, a zea: dat zx'az tn end in meikiy 
two separate nations of England and her American 
tu: seprit neijanz av ivjgland an ha:r a'merikan 
colonies. But perhaps it was a good thing, after all. 
kalaniz. bat pa'keeps it n>az a gud pig , a:ftar a:l. 
England has grown again to be one of the greatest 
iff gland haz groun a'gein ta hi: wa n av da greitist 
empire extends to all corners of the earth. 
empaia iks'tendz tu a:l ka:naz av di a:p. 
“And on the other hand, after the colonies got their 
“and an di Ada Jucnd, a:fta da kalaniz gat dr a 
liberty, they continued to grow in size, and now the 
libati, dei kan'tinju :d ta grou in soiz, an nan da 
country extends from the Atlantic all the way across 
kxntri iks'tendz frani di at'lcentik a:l da wei a'kras 
to the Pacific. The country that we call America con- 
ta da pa'sifik. da k\ntri dat zvi: ka:l a'merika kan - 
sists of 48 separate states, each with its own laws. 
'sists av fa:ti'eit seprit steits, i:tf n f id its oun la:z. 
But they are united into one nation, and have one 
bat dei a: jic'naitid inta zc.w/ neijan , an hav wah 
law for things that are important to all the states. 
la: fa pigz dat a:r ini' pa :t ant tu a:l da steits. 
That is why the country is called the ‘United States of 
dcct iz hwiii da kxntri iz ka:ld da ^jic'naitid steits av 
America’.” “What made the first people leave England 
a'merika V’ “Ineat meid da fa:st pi:pi li:v hjgland 
The Fifty-Sixth (56th) Chapter. 
and go to America?” Storm asked. “Wasn't there 
an gou tu a'merika?” sta:m a.skt. “waznt dea 
sufficient work and food for them in England?” “Yes, 
s a'f if ant wa:k an fu:d fa dam in iy gland?” “jes. 
that had nothing to do with the reason. But shortly 
dcet had nApiy ta du: zvid da ri:zn. bat ja:tli 
after sixteen hundred, there was a lot of religious 
a:fta siksti:n h\ndrad, dea waz a lot av ri'lid^as 
trouble in England, and the cause of the trouble was a 
tr\bl in iy gland, an da ka:z av da tr\bl waz a 
new Act that said that all church services in England 
njii: cckt dat sed dat a:l tfa:tf sarrisiz in iygland 
must be held in a way that was very much like the 
mast bi: held in a zvei dat zvaz veri m.\tf laik da 
way the Catholic services were held. However, there 
zvei da k<epalik sa:znsiz voa: held. hau'eva, dea 
were many people who thought that this was not the 
zea: nieni pi:pi hit: pa:t dat dis zvaz not- da 
right way to worship God, and who would not do 
rait zvei ta zva:fip gad, an Jut: zvad rut du: 
as the law said. Often, when they came together to 
az da la: sed. a:fn, hzven dei keim ta'geda ta 
worship God, people who held the other opinion would 
zva.fip gad, pi:pi hu: held di a dar a'pinjan wad 
come and interrupt their services and try to start fights 
k\\m and bit a 1 r Apt dea sa.visiz an troi ta sta:t faits 
with them. In all this trouble many people were hurt, 
wid dam. in a:l dis trAbl meni pi:pl zva: ha:t, 
sufficient = 
enough 
poor (here) = 
needing help or 
care 
and some even killed in the fights, and at last some 
an s.\m i:van kild in da faits , and at la:st saw 
of them decided to leave England and go to America, 
av dam di'saidid ta li:v iygland an gou, tu a'merika, 
where they would have liberty to worship God as they 
hwea dci wad hccv libati ta zva:jip god az del 
thought best, without being killed for it.” 
po:t best, wid'aut bi:iy kild far it” 
“Poor fellows!” Storm said. “I wonder if many more 
u pua felouz!” sto:m scd. “cii wxndar if meni mo:r 
of them weren’t killed by the Indians in America?” 
av dam wa:nt ’kild bai di indjanz in a'merika?” 
“Yes, that’s just what happened,” Marshall replied. 
“jes, deets d^xst hwot hcepnd” ma.fal ri'plaid. 
“Only a very few of the Englishmen who arrived in 
u ounli a veri fju: av di iyglifman ha: a'raivd in 
America on the famous ‘Mayflower’ lived to see the 
a'merika on da feiinas i meiflaua y livd ta si: da 
next spring. In the first place, they had not brought 
nckst spriy. in da fa:st pleis, dci had not bro:t 
sufficient food with them from England, and in the 
sa'fifant fu:d n 'id dam fram iygland, and in da 
second place, the Indians hated the white men, or the 
sokand pleis, di indjanz heitid da hwait men, o: da 
pale-faces, as they called them, and killed many of 
peilfeisiz, az dei ko:ld dam, an kild meni av 
them. The English went in fear of their lives both 
dam. di iyglif went in fiar av dea laivz boup 
The Fifty-Sixth (56th) Chapter. 
day and night and never felt safe. Much blood was 
dei an naif an neva felt seif. ni.\tj bl.ul was 
shed to conquer America from the Indians.” 
fed ta kaykar a'merika fram di indjanz.” 
“One can easily understand that the Indians hated 
“w\n kan i:zili Anda'stcend dat di indjanz heitid 
those pale-faced strangers and regarded them as their 
douz peilfeist streind^az an ri'ga.did dam az dear 
enemies,” Storm said. “They couldn’t understand each 
enimiz” sta:m sed. u dei kudnt Anda'stcend i:tf 
other at first, and so it was impossible for the white 
Adar at fa:st , an sou it waz im'pasabl fa da hwait 
men to explain to the Indians that they only wanted 
men tu iks'plein ta di indjanz dat dei otinli zvantid 
a small part of the country to live in. The Indians, of 
a sma:l pn:t av da kAntri ta liv in. di indjanz, av 
course, had a fear that the pale-faces were going to 
ka:s, had a fia dat da peilfeisiz wa: gouty ta 
take the whole continent, and thought they could stop 
teilc da houl kantinant , an pa:t dei had stop 
them by killing them. I think that if the Indians 
dam bcii kiliy dam. ai piyk dat if di indjanz 
hadn’t been in such a hurry to start fighting, but had 
hcednt bi:n in SAtf a liAri ta sta:t faitiy, bat had 
waited until they and the pale-faces could understand 
zee it id An'til dei an da peilfeisiz kad Anda'stcend 
each other, there wouldn’t have been so much trouble, 
i:tf Ada, dea zvudnt hav bi:n sou niAtf trAbl, 
He sheds, he shed, 
he has shed [ feds, 
fed, fed]. 
pretty 
rather 
and so much blood would not have been shed.” 
an sou in At f Mac i wad not hav bi:n fed.” 
“I don’t think it would have made much difference,” 
“cii dount piyk it zvad hav meid mAtf difrans” 
was Marshall’s opinion. “People have been making 
zoaz ma:falz a'pinjan. i( pi:pl hav bi:n meikiy 
war upon each other for less reason than that since 
zvo:r a 1 pan i:tf Ada fa les ri:zn dan dcet sins 
the beginning of history. It seems to be the nature 
da biginiy av histari. it si:mz ta bi: da neitjar 
of man to hate and to kill, and, consequently, many 
av mccn ta heit an ta kil, an, konsikwantli, meni 
must live in fear of others and suffer pain from the 
mast liv in fiar av Adaz an SApa pein fram di 
actions of others. Now that I come to think of it, we 
cckfanz av Adaz. nau dat ai kAin ta piyk av it, zvi: 
(here) = 
really are a pretty bad lot, don’t you think so, too?” 
riali a:r a priti bced lot, dount ju: piyk sou. tu:f” 
“Some of us, yes,” Storm answered. “But at least those 
(( sAin av as, jes” sto:m arnsad. C( bat at li:st dons 
first Americans seem to have been the right sort of 
fa:st a'merikanz si:m ta hav bi:n da rait so:t av 
men. They were willing to take upon themselves all 
men. dei zva: zviliy ta teik a'pan dam'selvz o:l 
the work, all the difficulties, all the suffering that 
da zca:k, o:I da difikaltiz, j:l da SApariy dat 
living in the New World meant, in order to be allowed 
liviy in da nju: zva.ld ment, in a:da ta bi: a'laud 
The Fifty-Sixth (56th) Chapter. 
to worship God in the way they thought right. They 
to Wd:jip god in da wei dei po:t rait. bei 
stayed on over there, even though they suffered very 
steid on ouvo bed, i:van bon bet sxfdd veri 
much both on account of the cold winters and the 
niAtf boup on o'kaunt ov bd kould wintoz on bo 
fights with the Indians, and because they did not have 
faits ivib bi mdjonz, on bi'koz bei did not hcev 
sufficient food. Thus the great nation of the United 
so'fifont fu:d. b.\s bo grcit neijon ov bo ju:'naitid 
States to-day owes its existence to the courage with 
steits to'dei ouz its ig'zistons to bo k\rid 3 wib 
which these people settled a question of religion which 
Jmdtf bi:z pi:pl setld 0 kwestjon ov ri'lid^on hwitf 
was more important to them than their lives. Not a bad 
woz 1110:r ini'po:tout to bom bon beo laivz. not 0 heed 
sort of people for a nation to begin with!” 
so:t ov pi:pi for 0 neijon to hi'gin wib!” 
“No, that’s right,” Marshall agreed. “But look what 
(C nou, beets rait” ma:fol o'gri:d . “hot luk hzvot 
has happened over there since then. America has 
hoz heepnd ouvo beo sins ben. o'meriko hoz 
been in too great a hurry to grow big and strong, and 
him in tu: greit 0 JiAri to grou big on stroy, on 
many Americans have been in too great a hurry to 
mcni o'merikonz hov bi:n in tu: greit 0 JiAri to 
get rich quickly. They haven’t had much time left 
get ritf kwikli. bei hcevnt heed mAtf taim left 
thus ~ in this 
way 
settle (here) = 
decide 
Liberty 
over for thinking about those fine ideas of liberty that 
ouva fa piykiy a'baut douz fain ai'diaz dv libdti dat 
made the first Americans leave their mother coun- 
meid 
da fa:st 
a'merikanz li:v 
dea 
mAda 
kAtl- 
try. 
However,” 
he 
continued, “I 
do 
think 
America 
In. 
hau'eva” 
hi: 
kan'tinju:d, “ai 
du: 
piyk 
a'merika 
has earned the Statue of Liberty which the people 
haz a:nd da stcetju: av libati hwitf da pi:pi 
of France gave America in 1886 , as a sign 
av fra:ns geiv a'merika in eiti:n eiti'siks, az a sain 
of the love of liberty in both countries. It’s an 
av da Iav av libati in boup kwntriz. its an 
extremely tall statue, you know, placed on an island 
iks'tri:mli ta:l stcetju:, jit: non, plcist an an ailand 
come to a free country.” 
kAm tu a fri: kAntri” 
“Yes, I know,” Storm replied. “I’ve read about it. 
“jes, ai nou/ f sta:m ri'plaid. “aiv red a'baut it. 
Inside it, you can go all the way up to the head, 
insaid it, jit: kan gou a:l da wei Ap ta da hod, 
where you can look out through the eyes and thus 
hwea ju: kan luk ant pru: di aiz an 
get a wonderful view of New York. The Americans 
get a wAndaful vju: av nju: ja:k. di aincrikanz 
are very proud of the ‘sky-line 5 of New York, as 
a: veri praud av da ‘skailain 5 av nju: ja:k, az 
The Fifty-Sixth (56th) Chapter. 
they call it, the line of houses and towers seen against 
dei ka:l it, da lain av hauziz dn taudz si:n a'geinst 
the sky when your boat is entering the harbour. I 
da skai hwen jj: bout iz entariy da ha:ba. ai 
hope to see it some day.” 
houp ta si: it sun dei.” 
“So do I,” Marshall said, as he prepared to go to 
“sou du: ai ” ma:fal sed, az hi: pri'pead ta gou ta 
bed. “Perhaps we could go there together.” “Yes, 
bed. u pa'h(Fps wi: kad gou dea ta'geda.” “jes, 
perhaps we might,” Storm answered. “Well, good 
pa keeps wi: mait ” sta:ni cr.nsad. “wcl, gud 
night!” 
miit!” 
EXERCISE A. 
with the English government of their country. 
war between England and her American colonies ended 
WORDS: 
railroad 
bill 
street-car 
subway 
depot 
baggage 
colony 
lesson 
dissatisfied 
tax 
separate 
extend 
liberty 
Atlantic 
Pacific 
unite 
worship 
sufficient 
fight 
hate 
pale-face 
pale-faced 
kill 
fear 
shed 
suffer 
action 
hurry 
cause 
statue 
thus 
sign 
nature of man to hate and kill, and, consequently, many 
EXERCISE B. 
Answer these questions with full sentences: 
EXERCISE C. GRAMMAR. 
In the sentences “I have walked five miles the last three 
days”, “the girl has played in the garden for an hour”, 
“he had looked out of the window for me just before 
The Fifty-Sixth (56th) Chapter. 
I arrived”, ‘walked 5 , ‘played 5 , and ‘looked 5 are called 
second participles | piutisiplz]. (The first participle, 
‘playing 5 , etc., we are going to hear about later.) You 
will notice that the second participle of verbs like these 
has the same form as the past tense. 
The second participle is used with the present tense of 
‘have 5 to make the perfect [p3:fikt\ tense: I have called, 
you have called, he has called, she has called, it has 
called, we have called, you have called, they have called. 
The second participle is also used with the past tense 
of ‘have 5 to make the pluperfect \'plu:'pa:fikt\ tense: I 
had called, you had called, he had called, she had called, 
it had called, we had called, you had called, they had 
called. 
The second participle of ‘be 5 is ‘been 5 , and the perfect 
tense is as follows: I have been, you have been, he has 
been, she has been, it has been, we have been, you have 
been, they have been. The pluperfect is made with the 
past tense of ‘have 5 : I had been, you had been, he had 
been, she had been, it had been, we had been, you had 
been, they had been. 
Questions: 
What other form of the verb is as a rule the same as 
EXERCISE D. 
siksti'eit, nelsn roud, 
wimblddn. 
dd twenti'eitp av dycn. 
did zvud, 
aim sjri ddt it has bi:n sou lay bi'fa:r aiv found 
taim tu a:nsd jo: leta, hwitf ai ri'si:vd a:Vredi at da 
bi'giniy av la:st wi:k. bat ju: si:, an im'pa:tant tfeind 3 
has teikn pleis in mai laif sins mai la:st leta, and j :1 
mai taim and a:l mai pa:ts hav bi:n teikn \p zvid it. 
da fcckt is, mcerian cdwads has pramist ta bi'k.\m mai 
waif, sou fram bi.iy a laitha:tid j.\y man wid'out a 
hear in da wa:ld, aiv sxdnli bi:n tfeindyi intu a nuen 
zvid veri siarias pa:ts a'baut da fju.tfa, nan dat aim 
(jouiy ta hccz > a fcemili av mai oun. 
its strcind 3 ta piyk dat at da seim taim Jnven mcerian 
and ai zva:r an da trip hwear ai a:skt ha: dcet veri 
im'pa.tant kwestfan, an hwea wi: wa:kt in da zca.ni 
s ah fain a nda da gri:n tri:s, ju: zua: handy sta:ms zvid 
rein an kould at houm. bat dat riali is \n'ju:$ual, 
i:van in ana kxntri, at dis taim av da jia. hou'eva, 
spriy an s\ma du: kAin a:lia in iygland dan at houm. 
in da pa:ts av iy gland dat aiv si:n an mai trips, da 
li:vs zva:r aut a:Vrcdi at da bi'giniy av eipril. ^ 
wel, ai houp ta hi a fram ju: a'gein veri sum: ai 
want ta non hwat ju: piyk av da c greit nju:s y . as 
ju: non clout kan si: fram mai leta, ai havnt him 
.eibl ta piyk av niAtf els di:s la.st tu: wi:ks. 
ja:s sin'siali, 
sta:m 
