Chapter Fifty-Seven (57). 
The Fifty-Seventh (57th) Chapter. 
THE BRITISH EMPIRE 
Marshall had often promised Storm to take him to the 
ma:fal had o:fn pramist sto:m td teik him td da 
House of Commons when the members were present 
haus av kamanz hwen da memhaz zva: prcznt 
and the House at work. Storm wanted to see some 
and da haus at wa:k. sta:m want-id- ta si: saw 
of its famous members and hear them speak. Marshall 
av its feimas memhaz and hia dam spi:k. ma:jal 
felt this promise as a debt of honour. So, at length, 
felt dis prjmis az a det av ana. sou, at leyp, 
one afternoon after office hours he decided to pay 
wau a:fta'nu:n a:ftar of is auaz hi: di'saidid ta pei 
this debt. He went with Storm to the House of 
dis dot. hi: went zvid sta:m ta da haus av 
Commons, and they spent some hours there, listening 
kamanz, and dei spent sam auaz dea, lisniy 
to the different speakers. 
ta da difrant spi:kaz. 
Among other matters several colonial questions were 
a'mAf) Ada mcctaz sevral ka'lounjal kzvestjanz wa: 
discussed, which seemed to be of much interest to 
dis'kwst, hwitj si:md ta hi: av MAtf intrist ta 
Storm. On their way home he seemed to be thinking 
sta:m. an dea zvei houm hi: si:md ta bi: pit/kiy 
debt = something 
which is owed to 
somebody 
colonial = having 
to do with colonies 
of something, and after dinner, when they were making 
av SAinpifj, and a:fta dina, hzvcn dci zva: meibig 
themselves comfortable, each in a big chair, he said 
dam'selvz kxmjatabl, i.:tj in a big tfta, hi: scd 
to Marshall, “The colonial questions which were dis- 
ta ma:fal , “da ba'lounjal bzvestfanz hzvitj zva: dis¬ 
cussed in Parliament to-day interested me more than 
l kAst in pa:larnant ta'dei intristid mi: ma: dan 
anything else, though I didn’t always catch the meaning; 
enipig els, don ai didnt a:lzvaz kcetj da mi:nig; 
for after all, I know far too little about the colonies. 
far a:ftar a:l , ai non fa: tic litl a 1 bant da balaniz. 
For instance, I don’t know how they’re governed.” 
far instans, ai donnt non han do a gAvand” 
“It isn’t so easy,” Marshall said, “to tell you in a few 
“it iznt son i:zi” ma:fal scd , “ta tel jn: in a fju: 
words about their government, because they’re not all 
u*a:dz a'baut dea gAvanmant, bi'kaz dea nat >.7 
manner = way 
governed in the same manner; but we could talk a little 
gAvand in da scim mccna; bat zvi: bad ta:k a litl 
about the question until bedtime. I’ll start in a 
a'baut da kwestfan ah' til bedtaim. ail sta:t in a 
moment = a very 
short time 
moment. First I’ll go out to the kitchen and get some 
mourn ant. fa:st ail gou ant ta da kit fin an get sam 
matches so that we can try the new cigarettes I bought 
inert/ : z sou dat zvi: ban trai da nju: siga'rets ai ba:t 
to-day.” He did so, and a few moments later they 
ta'dei” hi: did sou, and a fju: moumants leita dei 
The Fifty-Seventh (57th) Chapter. 
were enjoying their cigarettes. “Well, Storm,” said 
7 va:r indyiiy bea siga'rets. u wel, sta:ni” seti 
Marshall, taking up the conversation again, ‘Til first 
ma:jal, teikiy a p da kanva'seifan a'gein, “ail fa:st 
tell you about a number of countries which used to 
tel ju: a'baut a nxmbar av hwntriz hwitj ju:st ta 
be governed by Britain. The best known of them are 
hi: (jAvand bai britan. da best noun av dam a: 
Canada, New Zealand, Australia, South Africa, India, 
kcenada, nju :'zi .land, a.s'treilja , saup cefrika, indja, 
and Pakistan. We call these countries Dominions. 
an pa:ki'sta:n. wi: ka:l di:z kAntriz da'minjanz. 
They have their own governments which look after 
dei Jucv dear oun (jAvanmants Jvzvitj Ink a:ftar 
affairs of interest to the Dominions themselves. Re- 
a'fraz av intrist ta da da'minjanz bam'selvz. ri- 
garding foreign affairs which are of importance to the 
'(ju:diy farin a'feaz lnvitj ti:r av im'pa.tans ta da 
regarding = as to 
whole Empire, they have the same right as the mother 
houl enipaia, dei hccv da seim rait az da mAda 
country to decide what steps should be taken. So you 
kAHtri ta di'said hwat steps fad bi: teikn. sou ju: 
see, Storm, that it would be incorrect to regard Britain incorrect = not 
si:, sta:m, dat it wad bi: inka'rekt ta ri'ga.d britan correct 
and the Dominions as a country with its colonies. It's 
an da da'niinjanz az a kAntri wid its kalaniz. its 
rather a number of states which are held together by 
rci.dar a tiAinbar av steits hwitf a: held ta'geda bai 
development = 
growth 
nineteenth century 
= the time from 
the year 1800 to 
the year 1900 
gain = win 
the same interests of trade and politics.” 
da seim intrists av treid an palitiks” 
“But the Dominions cannot have had all these political 
“bat da da'minjanz kccnat hav heed j: 1 di:z pa'litikal 
rights from the beginning,” Storm interrupted. 
rciits frani da bi'giniij” sta:m inta'r\ptid. 
“No, they’re the fruits of a development which has been 
“non, dea da fricts av a di'velapmant hzvitf haz bi:n 
going on for many years,” Marshall continued. “At 
gouiy an fa meni ji3z” ma:fal kan'tinju:d. “at 
first the Dominions were simply colonies which could 
fa: st da da'min fans zva: simpli kalaniz hzvitf bad 
not make decisions regarding many of their own affairs 
nat meik di'si^anz ri'ga:dirj mcni av dear oun a'feaz 
without asking Britain, but the political development 
zeid'aut a:skirj britan , bat da pa'litikal dPvelapmant 
which took place in the nineteenth century has made 
hzvitf tuk pleis in da nainti:np sentfnri haz mcid 
it necessary for Britain to give them greater and 
it ncsisari fa britan ta giv dam greitar an 
greater liberty to look after their own affairs, and by 
greita libati ta Ink a:fta dear oun a'feaz, an bai 
the year 1900 half of the Dominions had 
da jia naintirn hxndrad ha:f av da da'minjanz had 
gained their present rights.” “And the fact that the 
geind dea preznt raits” “an da feekt dat da 
Dominions have gained these political rights is no 
da'minjanz hav geind di:z pa'litikal raits iz nou 
The Fifty-Seventh (57th) Chapter. 
doubt an important reason why Britain has been able 
(l ant d>i im'pj.tdnt rr.zn hzvai britdn hdz bi:n eibl 
to keep her connection with them,” Storm said. “It’s 
ta ki:p hs: ks'nekfdu zvid d 3 m” stj.'tn sed. “its 
the same with nations as with people. You can almost 
dd seirn zvid neifsnz 3Z zvid pi:pi. ju: kdn o.lmoust 
always have your way with them if your behaviour 
j:Izv3z hccz' jo: zvei zvid d3in if jj: bi'heivj3 
towards them is gentle and understanding. If Britain 
t3 l zvj:dz d3in ic dyntl 3nd \nd3 x stcendirj. if brit3n 
had used force against her present Dominions instead 
Ji3d jiczd fj:s 3 'geinst J 73 : preznt ds'minjsnz in'sted 
of being gentle with them, they would have been lost 
dv bi:iy d$entl zvid dsm, dci zvsd Ji3v bi:n hst 
now, I suppose, as her former North-American colonies 
nau. ai S3'pouz, 3Z hs: fj.md 'ru:ps'meriksn koteniz 
were lost when she used force against them, sending 
zv3: hst hzven fi: ju:zd fj:s 3 'geinst ddm , sendiy 
armies across the sea to fight them.” ' “No doubt you’re 
a:miz s'kros ds si: t3 fait d3m ” “non daut jn3 
right,” Marshall replied. “But though the Dominions 
rait” ma:f3l ri'plaid. “b3t dou d3 dd'minjsnz 
are the best known parts of the British Empire, we 
a: d 3 best noun pa:ts 3v ds britif einpais, zvi: 
must not forget to say a few words about the colonies 
ni3st tut f3'get ts sei 3 fju: zv3:dz 3'baut d3 kjhniz 
proper. They’re parts of the British Empire with 
prop 3 . ded pa.ts 3v d3 britif empais zvid 
an official = 
a person who 
works for the 
government 
the natives of a 
country = the 
people belonging 
by birth to the 
country 
just = right 
living among the natives. They're governed from 
livhj a'm.\y da neitivz. dea (j:\vand fram 
Britain, that is, by the Colonial Office in London. 
britan, dcrt iz, bai da ka'lounjal afis in I And an. 
The Colonial Office sends a representative, a so-called 
da ka'lounjal afis scndz a repri'zentativ. a souka.ld 
Governor, to each of the colonies to look after the 
gAvana, tu i:tj av da kalaniz ta Ink a:fta di 
affairs of the colony. Of course, he can’t do all the 
a'feaz av da kalani. av ka:s, hi: ka:nt du: a:l da 
work himself, but has a number of officials to help 
zva:k him'self, bat haz a tiAmbar av a'fifalz ta help 
him. He and the officials together make up the 
him. hi: an di a'fifalz ta'geda nicik a p da 
highest authority of the colony. Naturally, the 
haiist o.'poriti av da kalani. ncetjrali, da 
Governor is always in connection with the Colonial 
gwanar iz a:lwaz in k a'nek fan wid da ka'lounjal 
Office in London, telling it what happens in the 
afis in l\ndan , teliy it hzvat hcepnz in da 
colony and getting orders as to what to do in im- 
kalani an getiy a:daz az ta hzvat ta du: in im¬ 
portant matters.” 
'pa: tent meet as. 99 ^ 
“Wouldn’t it be more just of Britain to let the colonies 
“zvudnt it bi: me: d^\st av britan ta let da kalaniz 
The Fifty-Seventh (57th) Chapter. 
have governments of their own, just like the Do- 
hav gAvanmants av dear oun, d$Ast laik da da- 
minions'!” Storm asked. 
1 min jam?” sto:m a:skt. 
“Perhaps it would be just,” Marshall replied, “but the 
“pa 1 haps it wad hi: d^Ast” ma:fal ri'plaid, “bat da 
natives of most of the colonies are not white people, 
neitivz av moust av da kolaniz a: not hwait pi:pi, 
and wouldn’t be able to govern themselves. When the 
an wudnt hi: eibl ta gwan dam'selvz. hwen di 
English first came to these places, the natives in many 
iyglif fd-'st keim ta di:z pleisiz, da neitivz in meni 
cases were nothing but wild or savage tribes, living 
keisiz wa: nApiy hat waild o: scevid 3 traibz, liviy 
under the conditions offered by nature; so the English 
a nda da kan'difanz a fad bai neitja; sou di iyglif 
have had to take care of them. However, as the 
hav heed ta teik kear dv dam. hau'eva, az da 
natives become more used to European ideas, it is 
neitivz bi'kAin mo: ju:st ta juara'pian ai'diaz, it iz 
the intention of the British to give all the colonies 
di in'ten fan av da britif ta giv d: 1 da kolaniz 
self-government. 
'selfgAvanmant. 
“I know that it’s the general opinion of many foreigners 
“ai nou dat its da d^enaral a 1 pinjan av meni forinaz 
that Britain has only thought of her own interests in 
dat britan haz ounli pa:t av ha:r oun intrists in 
asavage 
intention = 
purpose 
fair = just 
rule (here) = 
government 
connection with the colonies, but this is not quite fair. 
ha'nek fan u’id da kahniz, bat dis iz not kwciit fra. 
In the colonies where the natives were savages when 
in da halaniz hwra da neitivz wa: sccvidyz hwcn 
they came under British rule, Britain has really done 
dci kcim And a britif ru:l, britan haz riali d.\n 
a lot of good work for the people, making their life 
a l at av gnd wa:k fa da pi: pi, meikiy dr a hvif 
easier, building schools and hospitals for them, etc., 
i.zia, bildiy sku:lz an haspitlz fa: dam , it'setra, 
and on the whole trying to be just and fair. But it 
and an da houl troiiy ta bi: d^Ast an fra. bat it 
would be incorrect to say that all the colonies like to 
wad bi: inha'rekt ta sci dat a:l da halaniz loih ta 
be under British rule.” 
bi: And a britif ru:l” 
“At least many of the people in India didn’t like it 
“at li:st mem av da pi: pi in indja didnt laik it 
as they came to feel equal with the Europeans,” Storm 
az dei keim ta fi:l i:kwal wid da juara'pianz” sta:m 
said with a smile. “From the papers and also from 
sed wid a smail. “fram da peipaz and a:Ison fram 
a number of books I’ve read, I know that there used 
a n\mbar av buhs aw red, ai non dat dr a ju:st 
to be much trouble with India from time to time. 
ta bi: m\tf tiwbl wid indja fram taim ta taim. 
Could you tell me a little more^about the government 
had jii: tel mi: a lift ma:r a'lnmt da gAvanmant 
The Fifty-Seventh (57th) Chapter. 
of India? I've no definite idea of it.” “Before 
dv indja? aiv non definit ai'dia av it” “bPfa: 
1947 the government of India was different 
nainti:n fa:ti'sevn da gwanmant av indjd waz difrant 
from that of the Dominions as well as from that of 
fram dcet av da da'minjanz az wel az fram dcet av 
the colonies,” was Marshall's reply. “It did not govern 
da kalaniz” waz mcr.jalz ri'plai . “it did not gwan 
itself. It was governed by the British and the Indians 
it 1 self, it waz gwand bai da britif an di indjanz 
government department in London, called the India 
gwanmant di'pci:tmant in l And an, ka:ld di indja 
Office, looking after Indian affairs. But as you 
afis, lukiy a:ftar indjan a'feaz. bat az ju: 
mostly on account of the manner in which it was 
moustli an a'kaunt av da mcenar in hwitf it waz 
governed. Many of the Indians wanted their country 
gAvand. meni av di indjanz wantid dea kAntri 
to be given self-government as soon as possible.” “And 
ta bi: givn 'selfgAvanmant az su:n az pasabl” “an 
wasn't it to do justice to them, Marshall, to offer them 
waznt it ta du: d^Astis tu dam, ma:fal, tu afa dam 
definite = clear 
in meaning 
do justice to = 
be just to 
what they wanted?”• Storm asked. “If it was only 
Jizvat dci zvantid?” sta:m a:skt. “if it zvaz ounli 
a question of doing justice to them, they would 
a kzvcstjan av dir.iy d$.\stis tu daw, dei wad 
have been given self-government a long time before,” 
hav bi:n givn 'self gw an want a lay taiw bi'fa 
Marshall replied. “In 1917 the British 
ma.fal vi'plaid. “in nainti.n scvnti.n da britif 
Government declared that its intention was the develop- 
(j.wanmant di'kkad dat its in'ten fan zvaz da di'velap- 
ment, step by step, of the same sort of self-government 
want, step bai step, av da seim sa:t av 'selfgxvanmant 
for India as the Dominions had. But India consists 
jar indja az da da'minjanz heed. bat indja kansists 
of many nations, with different ideas of life and with 
av weni neijanz, zvid difrant ai'diaz av laif an zuid 
different religions. Several of them were not at all 
difrant ri'lid^anz. sevral av daw zva: nat at a:l 
interested in a national and united India, but thought 
intristid in a neefanal an ju:'miitid indja, bat pa:t 
only of their own interests, while others were satisfied 
ounli av dear oun intrists, hzvail \daz zva: scetisfaid 
with British rule, because they thought that if India 
zvid britif rn:l, bi'kaz dci pa:t dat if indja 
was left to itself, there would be more trouble, perhaps 
zvaz left tu it'self, dea zvad bi: ma: tr\bl, pa'keeps 
war, instead of the good conditions that the country 
wa:, in'sted av da gud kan'difanz dat da kxntri 
The Fifty-Seventh (57th) Chapter. 
enjoyed under British rule. That is one of the reasons 
in'd^aid Anda britif ru:l. dcet iz w\n av da ri:znz 
why Britain, at one time, was not willing to give up 
hwai britan, at w\n taint, waz not zviliy ta giv Ap 
India, even if Indians like the famous Gandhi, for 
indja, i:van if indjanz laik da feimas gcendi:, far 
instance, wanted it.” 
ins tans, wantid it” 
“It seems as if the British were a little in doubt as 
“it si:mz az if da britif wa:r a litl in daut az 
to what to do with Gandhi,” Storm said. “Several 
ta hzvat ta du: wid gcendi:,” sta:m sed. “sevral 
times they punished him by sending him to prison, and 
taimz dei p\nift him bai sendiy him ta prizn, an 
when he had been in prison for some time, they set 
hzven hi: had bi:n in prizn fa SAm taim, dei set 
him at liberty again. In my opinion, they might just 
him at libati a'gein. in mai a'pinjan, dei mait d^Ast 
as well have given up punishing him, for I’m sure that 
az wel hav givn Ap pAnifiy him, far aim jua dat 
punishment cannot change the political opinions of a 
pAnifmant kcenot tfeind 3 da pa'litikal a } pinjanz av a 
man like that, even if it’s a punishment which sends 
nicen laik dat, i:van if its a pAnifmant hzvitf sendz 
him to prison for several years.” 
him ta prizn fa sevral jiaz” 
“The British didn’t think that either when they put 
“da britif didnt piyk dcet aida hzven dei put 
prison 
him in prison! They regarded him as a danger to the 
him in prizn'l dci ri'ga:did him sz a deind^a ta da 
State, because it was his political purpose to make the 
steit, bi'kjz it waz hiz pa'litikal pa:pas ta meik di 
Indians stop working in industry and thus make 
indjanz stop wa:kiy in indastri an d \s meik 
trouble for the British Government. However, after the 
trxbl fa da britif gwanmant. hait'wa, a:fta da 
wj :r av naintirn pa:ti'nain ta nninti.n fa: ti'f a iv, da britif 
Government made a definite plan for India. They 
gwanmant meid a definit phcn far indja. dci 
declared that the British troops and government officials 
di'klead dat da britif trir.ps an gwanmant a'fifalz 
would leave India in 1948. The Indians would 
wad li:v indja in naintirn fo:ti x eit. di indjanz wad 
then have to decide for themselves whether they wanted 
den hcev ta di'said fa dam'selvz hweda dci want id 
to remain in the Empire as a self-governing Dominion, 
ta ri'mein in di empaia az a 'self'gwaniy da'minjan , 
or whether they wanted to be a completely separate 
a: hweda dei zvantid ta bi: a kam l pli:tli scprit 
country without any connection with Britain. In 
k\ntri wid'aut eni ka'nekfan wid britan. in 
1947 the English and the Indians agreed 
nainti'.n fa:ti'sevn di iyglif dn di indjanz a'griui 
to divide the whole of India into the two Dominions 
ta di'vaid da houl av indja inta da tit: da'minjanz 
The Fifty-Seventh (57th) Chapter. 
of India and Pakistan, and on the fifteenth of August 
av indjd an pa:ki'sta:n, and on da fifti:np av o:gast 
of that year these Dominions received self-government. 
av dcet jia di:z da'minjanz ri'siivd 'self gAvanmant. 
For my part I hope that these new Dominions will keep 
fa mat pa:t ai houp dot di:z nju: da'minjanz wil ki:p 
their connection with Britain, for they have so many 
dca ka'nekjan wid britan, fa dei hav sou ineni 
advantages of trade to offer each other. And I think, 
ad'varntidyz av treid tu afar i:tf Ada. and ai pitjk, 
too, that good old Clive in that case would be happy 
tu:, dat gud ould klaiv in dcet kcis wad bi: hcepi 
in his grave.” 
in hiz greiv.” 
“Who’s Clive?” Storm asked. “Clive! You don’t say 
U hu:z klaiv/” storm a:skt. “klaiv! ju: dount sei 
that you’ve lived in England for about a year 
dot ju:v livd in iyglond far a'baut a jia 
without hearing the name of Robert Clive?” “I’m 
wid'aut hiariij da neim av robat klaiv?” u aim 
afraid so, but Fd like to hear something about him.” 
a'freid sou, bat aid laik to hia s Am pit) a'baut him” 
“Indeed, I must tell you about him at once. You cannot 
“in'di.d, ai mast tel ju: a'baut him at wahs. ju: kcenot 
go about without knowing who Robert Clive is. He 
gou a'baut wid'aut nouiy hu: robat klaiv iz. hi: 
was a great soldier and is famous for the battles he 
waz a greit sould^a and iz feimas fa da beetle hi: 
military = having 
to do with soldiers 
and war 
fought in India against the French and the Indians, 
fa:t in indja a'geinst da frenf an di indjanz, 
when the British control of India began. He was born 
hwen da britij kan'troul av indja bi'gccn. hi: tvaz ba:n 
in 1725, and as a boy he was very interested 
in sevnti:n twenti'faiv, and az a bai hi: waz veri intristid 
in military life and wanted to be a soldier himself. He 
in militari Iciif an want id ta bi: a sould^a him'self. hi: 
made a kind of military organisation among his small 
meid a kaind av militari a.ganai'zeijan a'mAy hiz srna:l 
friends, with military law. After leaving school he 
frendz, void militari la:. a:fta li.viy sku:l hi: 
was sent to India. In all, he had three long stays in 
waz sent tu indja. in a:l, hi: had pri: lay steiz in 
that country, but it was during his first stay there that 
dcct IcAntri , bat it waz djuariy hiz fa:st stei dea dat 
he did wonders. I’m thinking especially of the fighting 
hi: did wwidaz. aim piykiy is'pejali av da faitiy 
at Arcot, which I should like to tell you a little about. 
at a:'kat, hwitf ai fad laik ta tel ju: a litl a'baut. 
But first of all you must hear something about the 
bat fa.st av a:l ju: mast hia SAinpiy a'baut da 
political development in India which led up to those 
palitikal di'velapmant in indja hzvitf led Ap ta douz 
fights. 
faits. 
“The French at that time had a large army in India, 
(( da frenf at dcct taim had a la:d$ a:mi in indja, 
The Fifty-Seventh (57th) Chapter. 
and they had gained control of a large part of the 
an dci had geind k an 1 trend av a la:d$ pu:t av da 
country. The brave fighting of the French soldiers 
kwntri. da breiv faitiij av da frenf sould^az 
made a great impression upon the natives, who respected 
mcid a greit ini' pro fan a'pan da neitivz, hu: ris'pektid 
them and supported them by letting their own soldiers 
dam an sa'pa:tid dam bai letir/ dear oun sould^az 
fight with them. Now it was the plan of the French 
fait wid dam. nan it waz da plcen av da frenj 
to use the great power they had gained to drive the 
ta ju:z da greit puna dci had geind ta draiv di 
English out of India. 
irjglif aut av indja . 
“The English had tried to stop the rapid expansion of 
“di iijglij had traid ta stop da rcepid iks'peenjan av 
French power, but without success. No doubt, one of 
frenf paua, bat wid'aut sak'ses. nou daut, wah av 
the reasons for this was that they only had a few 
da ri:znz fa dis waz dat dei ounli had a fju: 
thousand soldiers in India. The greater part of them 
pauzand sould^az in indja. da greita pa:t av dam 
were at Madras, their most important city. Was the 
wa:r at ma'drees, dea moust iinpa:tant siti. waz di 
expansion of French power to continue, or could 
iks'peenjan av frenf paua ta kan'tinju:, a: kad 
anything be done to stop it? Clive, who at that time 
enipiij hi: dAti ta stap it? klaiv, hu: at dcct taim 
He drivesjie drove, 
he has driven 
[draivz, drouv, 
drivn]. 
expansion = 
spreading out 
retake = take 
back again 
He retakes, he 
retook, he has 
retaken [Vi \:'teiks, 
'ri:'tuk, 
'ri: l tcikn]. 
march = walk like 
a soldier 
troops = soldiers 
held a position equal to that of a captain in the army, 
held a pa'sifan i:kwal ta dcet av a kceptin in di a:mi, 
was of the opinion that the English should try to 
was av di a' pinjan dat di iyglif fad trai ta 
conquer Arcot, the capital of one of the native states 
kaykar a:'kat M da kcepital av zvau av da neitiv steits 
which was supported by the French. Then, he supposed, 
hwitf was sa'pa:tid hai da frenj. den, hi: sa'pousd, 
some of the soldiers that were on their way to Madras 
sam av da sould^as dat zva:r an dea wei ta ma'drees 
would be sent to Arcot instead in order to retake it, 
wad bi: sent tu a:'kat in'sted in a:da ta 'ri:'teik it, 
and, consequently, there would not be so many soldiers 
an, kansikwantli, dea wad nat bi: sou meni sould^as 
to fight against the English at Madras. The officers 
ta fait ageinst di iyglif at ma x drees. di afisas 
in that city thought his plan a good one and asked 
in dcet siti pa:t his plcen a gud zvah and a:skt 
him if he himself was willing to perform what he had 
him if hi: him'self was zviliy ta pa'fann hwat hi: had 
proposed that they should do. 
pra'pousd dat dei fad du:. 
“Clive at once agreed to this, and in a heavy storm 
“khiw at WAtis a'gri.d ta dis, and in a hevi sta:m 
with thunder and lightning he marched off towards 
wid pAndar an laitniy hi: ma.tft a:f tawa.ds 
Arcot as fast as possible with his troops, which only 
a.'kat as fa:st as pasabl wid his tru:ps, hwitf ounli 
The Fifty-Seventh (57th) Chapter. 
consisted of 200 English soldiers and 300 
kan'sistid av tu: JiAndrad iyglif sould^az an pri: h\ndrad 
native soldiers, the so-called Sepoys, commanded by 
ncitiv sould^az, da soukj:ld si:paiz, ka'ma:ndid bai 
eight officers, only two of whom had been in battle 
eit jfisaz, ounli tu: av hu:m had bi:n in bcetl 
before. 
bi'fa :. 
“The soldiers of the town of Arcot weren’t very brave 
“fia sould^az av da taun av cc'kat wa:nt veri breiv 
and at once gave up the place without a fight. This 
and at waiis (jeiv Ap da pleis wid'aut a fait. dis 
was easier than Clive had expected, but if he couldn’t 
i:zia dan klaiv had iks'pektid, bat if hi: kudnt 
hold the city against the enemy, nothing would have 
honld da siti a'geinst di enimi, nApiy wad hav 
been gained. He knew that they would soon try to 
bi:n geind. hi: nju: dat dei ivad su:n trai ta 
retake the town, and that he would be forced to fight 
1 ri.'tcik da taun, an dat hi: wad bi: fa:st ta fait 
with only the few troops he had, because some soldiers 
wid ounli da fju: tru.ps hi: heed, bi'kaz sam sould^az 
that had been sent to help him had not been able to 
dot had bi:n sent ta help him had nat bi:n eibl ta 
reach Arcot on account of the enemy. So he prepared 
ri:tf a: 1 hat an a'kaunt av di enimi. sou hi: pri'pead 
everything to hold the town, took care of the distri- 
evripiy ta hould da taun, tuk kear av da distri- 
was forced to = 
had to 
distribution = 
dividing among 
people 
in addition = 
besides 
bution of food, etc. 
1 bju:fdn dvfu:d, it'setra. 
“The strength of the enemy army that came to retake 
“da streyp av di enimi a:mi ddt keim td 'ri:'teik 
the town was much greater than that of Clive’s, as 
da taun was mAtf greita dan dcet av klaivs, as 
the natives at first had more than 6000 soldiers, 
da neitivz at fa:st had ma: dan siks pauzand sould^as, 
and in addition, 4000 of the troops that had been 
and in a'difan, fa: pauzand av da tru:ps dat had him 
fighting near Madras were sent to support them. So 
faitiy nia ma'drees wa: sent ta sa'po.t dam. sou 
it seemed quite impossible that Clive should be able 
it si:md kwait im'pasabl dat klaiv fad hi: eibl 
to break the strength of this army. 
ta breik da streyp av dis a:mi. 
“The fighting lasted for fifty days. The native troops 
k ‘da faitiy la:stid fa fifti deiz. da neitiv truips 
surrounded the town, and there was fighting every day. 
s a'round id da taun, an dea was faitiy evri dei. 
Towards the end of that time, conditions had become 
tawa:dz di end av deet taim, kan'difans had bi'kwm 
very bad for Clive and his men. Many of his soldiers 
veri beed fa klaiv an his men. rneni av his sould^as 
had been killed, big holes had been shot in the walls 
had him kild, big houls had bi:n fat in da wa:lz 
of the town, and in addition to this there was but little 
av da taun, and in a'difan ta dis dea was bat litl 
The Fifty-Seventh (57th) Chapter. 
food. However, Clive took care that the distribution 
fu:d. hau'eva , klaiu tuk kea dat da distri'bju:fan 
of it was just and did his best to help where help was 
av it waz d$ASt an did hiz best ta help hive a help waz 
needed. 
ni.did . 
“The troops outside thought that he would have to give 
“da tru:ps aut'said pa:t dat hi: wad hcev ta giv 
up the town and told him as much, but he said angrily 
a p da faun an tould him az mAtj, bat hi: sed ceygrili 
that they would soon know how British soldiers could 
dat dei wad su:n non hau britif sould^az kad 
fight. The natives then decided to take the town, cost 
fait. da neitivz den di'said id ta teik da taun, kast 
what it might, and a hard battle began. Clive, who 
Jrwat it mait, and a ha:d bcctl bi'gcen . klaiv, hu: 
had not had any rest for several days, had thrown 
had nat heed eni rest fa sevral deiz f had proun 
himself upon his bed; but when he heard that the 
him 1 self a'pan hiz bed; bat hwen hi: ha:d dat da 
battle which was to decide everything had begun, he 
bcetl hivitj waz ta di'said evripiy had bi'g\n, hi: 
rose from his bed at once, and led the fighting himself. 
rouz fram hiz bed at ivahs, an led da faitirj him'self . 
The enemy went forth to battle with a number of 
di enirni went fa:p ta bcetl wid a tiAmbar av 
elephants in front of them, but as soon as the troops 
elifants in frAnt av dam, bat az sn:n az da tru:ps 
in the town began using their guns, the elephants 
in da taun bi'gcen ju:ziy dr a g\nz, di elifants 
got quite wild and rushed back, killing many of the 
got kwait waild an iwft beck, kiliy meni av da 
natives. Without the elephants the enemy now tried 
neitivz . wid'out di elifants di enimi nan traid 
might = strength 
with all their might again and again to take the town, 
wid o:l dea inait a'gein and a'gein ta teik da taun, 
but they were driven back every time. The strength 
bat dei wa: drivn beck evri taim. da streyp 
of the little army in the town, fighting like lions and 
av da litl a:mi in da taun, faitiy laik laianz an 
bravely commanded by Clive, was too great. At 
breivli ka'murndid bai klaiv, waz tu: greit. at 
last the enemy was forced to give up the fight, and 
hi: st di enimi waz fo:st ta giv Ap da fait, an 
the rest of the troops marched away from the town. 
da rest av da tru:ps ma:tft a'wei fram da taun. 
Clive and his troops had won the battle. 
klaiv an hiz tru:ps had wah da bcetl. 
“From this day forth the French lost their power. 
“fram dis dei fo:f da frenf lost dea poua. 
Many of the natives would not help them any longer 
meni av da neitivz wad not help dam eni loyga 
when they found out how great the military strength 
liwen dei found out hau greit da militari streyp 
of the English was. Clive fought with all his might 
av di iyglif woz. klaiv fo:t wid o:l hiz mait 
The Fifty-Seventh (57th) Chapter. 
against the French and the natives that still supported 
a'geinst da frenj an da neitivs dat stil sa'pa:tid 
them, and before long the day came when the power 
dam, an bi'fa: lay da dei keim hwen da pauar 
of the English in India was as great as and even 
av di iyglif in indja zvaz as greit cez and i:van 
greater than that of the French.” 
greit a dan deet av da frenj” 
“Thank you very much, Marshall,” said Storm. “How- 
“ pccyk ju: veri mAtf, ma:fal” sed sta:m. “hau- 
ever, there’s one more thing I should like to ask you 
'eva. daz zv.xn ma: piy ai fad laik tu a:sk ju: 
about,” he continued. “Certainly, old man,” Marshall 
a'baut” hi: kan'tinju:d. “sa.tnli , ould mean/' ma:fal 
replied. “I should like you to tell me something about 
ri'plaid. “ai fad laik ju: ta tel mi: s\mpiy a'baut 
Ceylon,” said Storm. “I know that it’s a very large 
si'Ian,” sed sta:m. “ai nou dat its a veri la:d% 
island near the south coast of India from which we get 
ailand nia da saup koust av indja fram hwitf wi: yet 
very good tea. But tell me, Marshall,” he said, “is 
veri gud ti:. bat tel mi:, ma.jal” hi: sed, “iz 
Ceylon part of the new Dominion of India?” “No, 
si'lan pa:t av da nju: da'minjan av indja?” “nou, 
answered Marshall. “Ceylon is not part of the Dominion 
a:nsad ma:jal. “si'hn iz not pa:t av da da'minjan 
of India. It has become a separate Dominion with self- 
av indja. it has bi'kAm a seprit da'minjan wid 'self- 
government, in the same way as India and Pakistan,” 
'gAvanmant, in da seirn wei as indja an pa:ki stain/’ 
he continued. 
hi: kan'tinjuid. 
“Thank you, Marshall,” said Storm. “I hope we can 
“payk ju:. ma:fal” sed staim. “ai houp wi: kan 
continue our discussion of the British Empire some 
kan'tinju: aua dis'kAfan av da britif empaia sam 
other evening.” 
\da iivniy” 
WORDS: 
forth 
command 
moment 
definite 
debt 
Dominion 
colonial 
manner 
regarding 
incorrect 
native 
wild 
savage 
force 
force (verb) 
troops 
military 
strength 
oower 
EXERCISE A. 
the same manner. The political rights of the Dominions 
their present rights. Storm supposed that if England 
The colonies proper are parts of the British Empire with 
proper have governments of their own. When the Eng¬ 
lish first came to the colonies, the natives in many 
Marshall thought that on the whole England had tried 
The Fifty-Seventh (57th) Chapter. 
of men like Gandhi. As a boy, Clive was very interested 
EXERCISE B. 
what cinema did you see it? In what country had it 
been produced? Who played in it? What was it about? 
Was it a good or a bad film? Tell us about all this 
in your own words as well as you can. 
EXERCISE C. GRAMMAR. 
The forms of most English verbs are made in the same 
way as those of ‘to call’. We call these verbs regular 
might 
drive 
drove 
driven 
march 
gain 
retake 
retook 
retaken 
addition 
development 
expansion 
justice 
official 
punishment 
just 
punish 
prison 
gentle 
bedtime 
distribution 
fair 
govern 
Indian 
Governor 
Sepoy 
century 
intention 
rule 
Pakistan 
Ceylon 
\regjuld\ verbs. From what you have learned about 
them so far, you will have seen that if you know the 
infinitive, you will be able to make all the other forms. 
But in the case of some other verbs this is not so. 
Example: write, wrote, written (he writes, he wrote, 
he has written). Of such verbs you must know the 
infinitive, the past tense, and the second participle, in 
order to be able to make the different forms and tenses 
of the verb. We call these verbs irregular [i'regjuh] 
verbs. Other examples are: eat, ate, eaten; give, gave, 
given; swim, swam, swum. 
The verbs ‘shall 5 , ‘will’, ‘can’, ‘may’ are also irregular 
verbs; they only exist in the present tense and in the 
‘Must 5 and ‘ought 5 are the same in the present tense 
and in the past tense. Examples: You must go now. 
When he came home, I told him that he must go again. 
You always ought to help your friends. When you 
visited your uncle, you ought to have told him the 
truth. 
Questions: 
Mention one or two of the regular verbs that you have 
