Chapter Fifty-Eight (58). 
The Fifty-Eighth (58th) Chapter. 
THE CAT IS LET OUT OF THE BAG 
“Look here, Storm,” Mr. Edwards said one afternoon, 
“luk hid, sto:mmist dr edwddz sed wah a:ftd'nu:n, 
as they were sitting in Mr. Edwards’ study up to 
dz dei wd: sitirj in mist dr edwddziz stAdi Ap td 
their eyes in letters, bills, and all sorts of papers. 
dedr aiz in letdz, bilz, dnd o:l so:ts dv peipdz. 
“We shall have to find out why the goods that come 
“wi: fdl hcev td faind aut hwai dd gudz ddt kAm 
to us via Portsmouth have been so late in reaching 
tu as vaid pd. tsmdp hdv bi:n sou leit in ri:tfiy 
us the last few times; we can’t have all these delays. 
as dd la:st fju: taimz; wi: ka:nt hcev o:l di:z di'leiz. 
Twice there has been a delay of five days. Please go 
twais ded hdz bi:n d dilei ov faiv deiz. pli:z gou 
to the telephone in the hall and ring up Marshall. 
td dd telifoun in dd ho: l dn rig Ap ma:jdl. 
Ask him to send a wire to Portsmouth. I demand 
a:sk him td send d waid td po:tsmdp . ai di'ma:nd 
to know the reason for those delays at once. Tell 
td nou dd ri:zn fd douz di'leiz ot WAns. tel 
Marshall that we want a reply by wire to-day, so that 
ma:fdl ddt wi: wont d ri'plai bai waid td'dei, sou ddt 
he may be able to send the necessary cables to the 
hi: mei bi: eibl td send dd nesisdri keiblz td dd 
wire = telegram 
cable = telegram 
across water 
16/1 
673 
Chapter Fifty-Eight (58). 
error = 
wrong 
Continent, if they don’t know anything about it at 
kantinant, if dei dount nou enipiy a'baut it at 
Portsmouth. I want to get to the bottom of this 
pa:tsmap. ai want ta get ta da bat dm av dis 
question now, and it takes too long to send letters. 
kwestfan nau, and it teiks tu: lay ta send let as. 
So, as I said, I want Marshall to send a wire to 
sou, as ai sed, ai want ma:fal ta send a waia ta 
Portsmouth, and, if necessary, to cable to the Con- 
pa:tsmap, and, if nesisari, ta keibl ta da kan- 
tinent.” 
tinant.” 
When Storm had rung up Marshall and given him the 
hwen sta:m had rAy Ap maifal and givn him da 
message from the manager, Marshall replied, “I know 
mesid$ fram da mcenid^a, ma:fal rtplaid, “ai nou 
a fellow at the customs office in Portsmouth. I think 
a felou at da kAstams afis in pa:tsmap. ai piyk 
I’ll send a personal wire to him and ask him to help 
ail send a pa:snl waia ta him and a:sk him ta help 
something 
us to find the error. For it seems clear to me that 
as , ta faind di era. far it si:ms klia ta mi: dat 
it must be somebody down there who is making an 
it mast bi: SAmbadi daun dea hu: is meikiy sn 
error of some kind or other.” 
era av SAm kaind a:r Ada.” 
“Yes, do that,” Storm said. “And then ring me up as 
“jes, du: dcet,” sta:m sed. “an den riy mi: Ap as 
674 
The Fifty-Eighth (58th) Chapter. 
soon as you have learned something about it.” As he learn something 
su:n az ju: hav la:nd SAinpiy a'bant it/' dz hi: i^fonnation 1 
returned from the telephone in the hall, he met Marion 
ri'ta:nd fram da telifoun in da ho:l, hi: met mcerian 
just leaving her father’s room. “Hallo!” he greeted 
d^ASt li:viy ha: fa:baz ru:m. “lia'lou!” hi: gri:tid 
her with a smile. “You certainly have courage to go 
ha: wid a smail. “ju: sa:tnli hcev kArid$ ta gou 
in to your father when he’s so busy. It must have 
in ta jo: fa:da hwen hi:z sou bizi. it mASt hav 
been something pretty important you had to tell him.” pretty (here) = 
r a ther 
bi:n SAinpiy priti im'po:tant ju: heed la tel him / 3 
She didn’t answer him, but hurried away. 
fi: didnt a:nsa him, bat hArid a'wei. 
He shook his head a little in surprise at her behaviour, He shakes, he 
hi: fuk hiz hed a litl in sa'praiz at ha: bi'heivja, shaken ^[feikf Juk 
jeikn]. 
but entered the room without trying to stop her. Here 
bat entad da ru:m zvid'aut traiiy ta stop ha:, hia 
he found Mr. Edwards standing at the window in 
hi: faund mistar edwadz stcendiy at da windou in 
deep thought, not looking busy at all. When he heard 
di:p po:t, not lukiy bizi at o:l. hwen hi: ha:d 
Storm, he turned round with a little smile and said, 
sto:m, hi: ta:nd round wid a litl smail and sed, 
“Well, my boy, Marion has just told me about you two. 
“wel, mai boi, mcerian haz d$ \st tould mi: a'bant ju: tu:. 
And although young women no longer have to ask their 
and o:l'dou jAy wimin nou loyga hcev tu a:sk dea 
16/2 
675 
Chapter Fifty-Eight (58). 
father’s permission to marry, I’m happy to be able to 
fa:das pd'mifdn ta mceri, aim hcepi ta bi: eibl ta 
say that I should gladly have given Marion my per- 
sei dat ai fad glcedli hav givn mcerian max pa- 
mission to marry you, had she asked me. This is a 
1 mi fan ta mceri ju:, had fi: a:skt mi:. dis is a 
surprise to me. — I wonder what my wife is going to 
sa'prais ta mi:. — ai WAnda hwot mai waif is gouirj ta 
say about it! Where have we had our eyes? But, of 
sei a'baut it! hwea hav wi: heed auar aisf bat, av 
why! = oh! 
course, modern girls aren’t kept under observation in 
ko:s , modan ga:ls a:nt kept Andar obsa'veifan in 
the same way as their mothers were when I was young. 
da seim wei as dea mAdaz wa: hwen ai was jArj. 
Why! You must have been seeing each other quite 
hwai! ju: mast hav bi:n si:iy i:tf Ada kwait 
a lot to find time for coming to such an important 
a lot ta faind taim fa kAiniy ta SAtf an im'po:tant 
decision!” 
di'si^an!” 
“Not nearly enough, Mr. Edwards,” Storm replied. 
“not niali i'nAf, mistar edwads,” sto:m ri'plaid. 
“You see, there were always so many people about to 
“ju: si:, dea wa:r o:lwas sou meni pi:pl a'baut ta 
prevent me from telling her all the things I had to 
pri'vent mi: from teliij ha:r o:l da pit/s ai heed to 
say — and when it did look as if I was going to have 
sei — on hwen it did luk as if ai was gouiy ta hcev 
676 
The Fifty-Eighth (58th) Chapter. 
a chance, she always seemed to be able to find some- 
a tja:ns, fi: a:lwaz si:md td bi: eibl td faind saiu- 
thing to prevent me from talking about it just then! 
pirj td prevent mi: frdin ta.kiy a'baut it d$Ast den! 
But I can play at that game, too,” Storm continued 
bat ai kan plei at dcet geim, tu:,” sta:m kan'tinjuid 
with a little laugh, thinking of their trip to Leith Hill. 
wid d litl la:f, piykiy av dea trip ta li:p hit. 
“I caught her in a place the other day where she 
“ai ka:t ha:r in a pleis di Ada dei hwea fi: 
couldn’t get away, and for once there were no unwanted 
kudnt get a'wei, an fa WAns dea wa: nou 'An'wantid 
unwanted = not 
wanted 
persons about. So I just kept her there till she ac- 
pa:snz a'baut. sou ai d$ASt kept ha: dea til fi: ac¬ 
cepted me.” 
1 septid mi :.” 
“Hem, well,” Mr. Edwards replied, “I’ve made the 
“hm, wel” mistar edwadz ri'plaid, “aiv meid di 
observation several times myself that one must use a 
obza'veifan sevral taimz mai'self dat wau mast ju:z a 
strong hand with women now and then. It was the 
stray hcend wid wimin nau an den. it waz da 
same with her mother when we ...” He suddenly 
seim wid ha: mAda hwen wi: . . hi: SAdnli 
interrupted himself here and continued in another voice, 
inta'rAptid him'self hia and kan'tinju:d in a'nAda vais, 
“Well, shall we go to the sitting-room and break the 
“wel, fal wi: gou ta da sitiyrum an breik da 
677 
Chapter Fifty-Eight (58). 
break the news = 
tell the news 
grant = give 
brain 
news to my wife?” 
nju:z ta mai waif?” 
They found Mrs. Edwards in the garden with Marion. 
dei faund misiz edwadz in da ga:dn wid mcerian. 
“Now, what do you think of that?” Mr. Edwards 
“nau, hwot du: ju: piyk av dcet?” mistar edwadz 
asked. “Do you think we can grant these two children 
a:skt. “du: ju: pirjk wi: kan gra:nt di:z tu: tfildran 
our permission to marry?” “I think it’s wonderful, and 
aua pa'mifan ta mceri?” “ai pirjk its WAndaful, an 
that he’s a very nice boy for our Marion. May God 
dat lii:z a veri nais bai far aua mcerian. mei gad 
bless you, children! I hope you’ll be very happy.” 
blcs ju:, tfildran! ai houp ju:l bi: veri her pi” 
“Thank you, mother — we shall,” Marion answered, 
“pcerjk ju:, riiAda — wi: feel,” mcerian a:nsad, 
with a little smile at Storm’s red face. 
wid a litl smail at sta:mz red feis. 
“But you don’t look very surprised,” Mr. Edwards 
“bat ju: dount luk veri sa'praizd,” mistar edwadz 
said to his wife. “Oh no, I’ve been expecting this for 
sed ta hiz waif. “ou nou, aiv bi:n iks'pektiy dis fa 
some time. Haven’t you?” He replied by shaking his 
SAHi iaim. hcevnt ju:?” hi: ri'plaid bai jeikiy hiz 
head. “Why, with your wonderful brain, I thought 
lied. “hwai, wid jo: WAndaful brein, ai pa:t 
you had found out long ago!” “I may have got a good 
ju: had faund aut lay a'gou!” “ai mei hav gat a gud 
678 
The Fifty-Eighth (58th) Chapter. 
brain, as you say, and be able to use it in my work. 
brein, az ju: sei, an bi: cibl ta ju:z it in mai Wd:k. 
But Ill never be so wise about life as you are, my 
bat ail neva bi: son waiz a'baut laif az ju: a:, mai 
dear,” Mr. Edwards answered. “Your mother is a 
dia” mistar edwadz a.nsad. “jo: niAdar iz a 
very wise woman, Marion,” he continued; “you can’t 
veri waiz zviiman, mcerian” hi: kan'tinju:d; “ju: ka:nt 
teach her very much about life.” 
ti:t{ ha: veri mAtf a'baut laif.” 
“Yes, I do hope Marion will grow up to be like you,” 
“jes, ai du: houp mccrian wil grou Ap ta bi: laik ju:” 
Storm said seriously, but with laughing eyes. “Grow 
sto:m scd siariasli, bat wid la:fhj aiz. “grou 
up!” Marion cried. “Now, children, please!” laughed 
Ap!” mcerian braid. “nan, tjildran, pli:z!” la:ft 
Mrs. Edwards. 
misiz edwadz. 
“Life may be pretty rough, you 
“laif mei bi: priti rAf, ju: 
rough = 
smooth 
know, so don’t make it rougher still by fighting already. 
nou, sou dount meik it rAfa stil bai faitiy o:l'redi. 
And we have so many things to talk about now, too. 
an wi: hav son meni piyz ta to:k a'baut nan, tu:. 
Let’s go inside.” 
lets gou in'said.” 
“Yes, tell us about your plans,” Mr. Edwards said. 
“jes, tel as a'baut jo: plcenz” mistar edwadz sed. 
“I’m afraid our plans for the future haven’t taken any 
“aim a'freid aua plcenz fa da fju:tfa hcevnt teikn eni 
not 
679 
Chapter Fifty-Eight (58). 
shape = form 
pay attention = 
give attention 
definite shape yet,” Storm answered. “We want to 
definit feip jet” sta:m a:nsdd. “wi: wont id 
marry as soon as possible, of course, but it looks to 
niceri az su:n dz posabl, av ko:s, bdt it Inks ta 
me as if that’s a long way off. As far as I can see, 
mi: dz if beets a hy wei o:f. dz fair dzai kan si:, 
we must place all our hope of marrying soon in what 
wi: mast pleis o:l ana houp av mceriiy su:n in hwot 
I’m able to do with my brain.” “So you can under- 
aim eibl ta du: wid mai brein” “sou ju: kan \nda- 
stand what a very small hope it is, father,” Marion 
1 stcend hwot a veri srno:l houp it iz, fa:da” mcerian 
interrupted, laughing. 
inta'rAptid, la:fiy. 
Storm paid no attention to her words, but it was with 
stj:m peid nou a'ten fan ta ha: wa:dz, bat it waz wid 
rather red ears he continued: “What I mean is, I 
ra:da red iaz hi: kan'tinju:d: “hwot ai mi:n iz, ai 
haven’t been blessed with any rich old aunts who will 
hcevnt bi:n blest wid eni ritf ould a:nts hu: wil 
leave me all their money when they die, so what we’ll 
li:v mi: j: 1 dea m\ni hwen dei dai, sou hwot wi:l 
need, I shall have to earn by my own work. However, 
ni:d, ai fal hcev tu a:n bai mai oun wa:k. hau'eva, 
I think that the experience I have been able to gain 
ai piyk bat di iks'piarians ai hav bi:n eibl ta gein 
over here will help me when I return home.” 
ouva hia wil help mi: hwen ai ri l ta:n houm” 
680 
The Fifty-Eighth (58th) Chapter. 
“Return home!” Mrs. Edwards cried. “But that’s 
“ri'ta:n houm!” misiz edwadz kraid. “bdt doets 
entirely out of the question. Isn’t it?” she asked and 
in'taidli aut av da kwestjan. iznt it?” ji: a:skt and 
turned to her husband. “I’m afraid it’s impossible for 
ta:nd ta ha: hAzband. “aim a'freid its im'pasabl fa: 
me to stay much longer,” Storm said. “It makes me 
mi: ta stei mAtf layga” sta:m sed. “it meiks mi: 
very sad, too, to think of leaving England. But now 
veri seed, tu:, ta piyk av li:viy iy gland. bat nau 
I shall have to ‘get rich quick’, as they say in America, 
ai jal licev ta € get ritf kwik\ az dei sei in a'merika, 
and my chance of getting better paid work will be 
an mai tfa:ns av getiy beta peid wa:k wil bi: 
greater at home. And an entirely different thing is 
greitar at houm. and an in'taiali difrant p\y iz 
that my passport says that I can only stay three months 
dat mai. pa:spa:t sez dat ai kan ounli stei pri: m\nps 
longer in England.” “Only three months?” Mrs. Ed- 
hygar in iy gland ." “ounli pri: niAnps?” misiz ed- 
wards asked sadly. “Oh, isn’t there anything you can 
zvadz a:skt sccdli. “on, iznt dar enipiy ju: kan 
do about it? Don’t you know anybody in the police 
du: a'baut it? daunt ju: non enibjdi in da pa'li:s 
department that deals with unwanted foreigners?” 
di'pa:tmant dat di:lz wid '.\n'uuntid farinaz?” 
Mr. Edwards replied, with a little smile at the ex- 
mistar edzvadz ri'plaid. 7aid a lit / sniail at <)i iks- 
entirely = quite 
sad — sorry 
He deals, he dealt, 
he has dealt \di:lz. 
dclt, dclt ]. 
681 
Chapter Fifty-Eight (58). 
as a matter of fact 
— really 
the chief of a 
department = the 
man who is at the 
head of the 
department 
hopeful — full 
of hope 
pression his wife used, “As a matter of fact, I do know 
'prefdn his zvaif ju:sd, “dz a mcetdr av fcekt, ai du: non 
a man there. Jenkins, the chief of that department, 
a mcen bed. d^eykinz, dd tji:f av beet di'pa:tmant, 
is a personal friend of mine. But I can’t very well go 
is a pdisnl frend dv main, bdt ai ka:nt veri zvcl gou 
up there and demand that they should make an ex- 
a p dea an di'ma:nd bat dei fad meik an ik- 
ception to the rules as a personal favour to me, just 
'sepfan ta da ru:lz az a pa:snl feiva ta mi:, d^.xst 
because we would like a certain young man to stay. 
bi'kas wi: wad laik a sa:tn f\y mcen ta stei. 
But there’s nothing to prevent me,” he continued a 
bat daz n\piy ta prevent mi:,” hi: kan'tinju:d a 
little more hopefully, “from sending a personal mes- 
litl ma: houpfuli, “fram sendiy a pa:snt mes¬ 
sage to Jenkins, recommending Storm’s case to his 
id3 ta dyrjkim, rcka'mcndiy sta:mz keis ta his 
kind attention. 
kaind a'tenjan. 
“Now, listen!” he went on, turning to Storm. “You go 
t( nau, lisn!” hi: went an, tarniy ta sta:m. “ju: you 
in and write a letter to the chief of police, saying that 
in an rait a tela ta da tfi:f av pa'li:s, seiiy dal 
you’re doing special and very necessary work here, 
jua du:iy spefal an veri ne sisari wa:k hi a, 
which can't be finished within the three months that 
hwitj ko:nt hi: finift zvid'in da pri: m\nps dal 
682 
The Fifty-Eighth (58th) Chapter. 
you're allowed to stay, and asking for an extra year’s 
juar a'laud ta stei, and a:skit] far an ekstra jiaz 
stay. 
stei. 
“There’s more than sufficient work for you in our firm, 
“daz mo: dan s a'f if ant wa:k fa ju: in ana fa:m, 
so I’ll see that you get chances enough to prove whether 
sou ail si: dat ju: get tfa:nsiz i'nxf ta pru:v hweda 
you can take on more responsibility. If they grant 
ju: kan teik on mo: risponsa'biliti. if dei gra:nt 
you that extra year, and you make good in your work, 
ju: dcet ekstra jia, an ju: meik gud in jo: wa:k, 
you will get a rise, so that you can marry within the 
ju: toil get a raiz, sou dat ju: kan nicer i wid'in da 
coming year. And then next time you ask for per- 
k\miy jia. an den nckst tuini ju: a:sk fa pa- 
mission to extend your stay in England, you’ll have 
1 mifan tu iks'tend jo: stei in iygland, ju:l hcev 
the very good reason to give that you’re married to 
da veri gud ri:zn ta giv dat jua mcerid tu 
an Englishwoman. So run along now and get that letter 
an iyglifwuman. sou r\n a'lay nan on get dcet leta 
done, while I write to Jenkins!” 
d.\n, hivuil ui rail ta djeykinz!" 
“Isn’t it wonderful, the way father can always find 
u iznt it iv\ndaful, da wei fo:da kan odivaz faind 
a way out of difficulties?” Marion said to her mother. 
a wei ant av difikaltiz?” nicerian sed ta ha: m\da. 
make good 
have success 
683 
Chapter Fifty-Eight (58). 
“Yes, dear — there’s certainly nothing wrong with his 
“jes, did — das saitnli nApiy ray wid his 
brain,” Mrs. Edwards answered proudly. 
brein,” misiz edwadz a:nsad praudli. 
An hour later, when the two letters had been sent off, 
an aua leita, hwen da tu: letaz had bi:n sent a:f, 
Marshall arrived. “I thought it best to come out and 
mcr.jal araivd. “ai pa:t it best ta kAm out and 
explain the matter personally,” he said. “What matter?” 
iks'plein da mceta paisnali,” hi: sed. “hwat meet a?” 
Mr. Edwards asked. “Why, about the delays at Ports- 
mistar edwadz a:skt. “hwai, a'baut da di'leiz at pa:ts- 
mouth, sir,” Marshall replied in some surprise. “Oh yes, 
map, sa:” ma:jal ri plaid in sA-m sa'praiz. “ou jes, 
that’s right. I’d forgotten all about that. You see.” he 
dcets rait. aid fa'gatn a:l a'baut dcrt. jn: si:” hi: 
explained, noticing Marshall’s expression, “we’ve just 
iks'pleind, noutisiy ma:falz iks'prefan, “wi:v d$Ast 
learned that Marion is going to marry your friend 
la:nd dat mcerian iz gouiy ta mceri ja: frend 
Storm, so we’ve been far away in making plans for 
sta:m, sou wi:v bi:n fa:r a'wei in meikiy plans fa 
the future.” 
da fju:tfa ” 
“What’s that, old man?” Marshall said to Storm. “Didn’t 
u hwats dat , ould man?” ma:fal sed ta sta:m. (C didnt 
you tell me the other day to guard that piece of news 
ju: tel mi: di \da dei ta ga:d dat pi:s av nju:z 
684 
The Fifty-Eighth (58th) Chapter. 
like the crown jewels?” “I did,” Storm answered. 
laik da kraun dyi:alz?” “cii did” sta:m cr.nsad. 
“But Marion let the cat out of the bag this afternoon.” 
“bat mcerian let da kcet aut dv da bcug dis a:fta'nu:n 
“Aren’t you afraid to send your daughter off with a 
“a:nt ju: a'freid ta send jo: do: tar a:f it 'id a 
foreigner?” Marshall asked Mrs. Edwards. “We hope 
farina?” mcr. jal a:skt misiz edwadz. “zvi: houp 
they’ll be able to stay in England,” she answered, “so 
deil bi: eibl ta stei in iy gland” fi: a:nsad, “sou 
that we can keep an eye on them and guard her against 
dat zvi: kan ki:p an cii an dam an ga:d ha:r a'geinst 
all the strange ideas that he will no doubt try to put 
a:l da streind 3 ai'diaz dat hi: uni non daut trai ta put 
into her head!” 
inta ha: hed!” 
“Well,” said the manager, “what did you find out about 
“wel” sed da mcenid^a, “hwat did ju: faind aut a'baut 
Portsmouth?” “It doesn’t look as if anybody is making 
pa:tsmap?” “it d\znt luk az if enibadi iz meikiy 
any errors down there,” Marshall replied. “All goods 
cni craz daun dea” ma:fal ri' plaid. “a:l gudz 
are sent on very soon after reaching the town.” “Well, 
a: sent an veri su:n a:fta ri:tfiy da taun” “wel, 
did you cable to our connections on the Continent then? 
did ju: keibl tu ana ka'nekfanz an da kantinant den? 
You can’t have received any cables yet from over there.” 
ju: ka:nt hav ri'si:vd eni keiblz jet fram ouva dea” 
685 
Chapter Fifty-Eight (58). 
hunt about 
look for 
.something 
“No, I didn’t cable. You see, I found out that the last 
“non, ai didnt keibl. ju: si:, ai found out dat da la:st 
two or three times the goods have arrived on time. 
fit: a pri: tainiz da gudz hav a'raivd an taim. 
So I got some of these papers that deal only with 
sou ai gat SAm av di:z peipaz dat di:l ounli zvid 
ships; you know — the sailing plans of all ships, news 
fips; ju: nou — da seiliy plcniz av a:l fips, nju:z 
about the weather, and so on. And it seems that by 
a'baut da zveda, an sou an. and it si:mz dat bai 
a strange chance, four of the ships bound for Portsmouth 
a strcind 3 tfa.ns, fa:r av da fips bound fa pa:tswap 
with our goods on board have had several days’ delay 
zvid ana gudz an ba:d hav Jncd sevral deiz di'Jei 
on account of bad weather and a rough sea. The fellow 
an a'haunt av beed zvedar and a r\f si:. da felou 
down there who had dealt with our things was very 
daun dr a hu: had delt zvid aua piyz zvaz veri 
helpful; it was he who suggested that I should try those 
helpful: it zvaz hi: hu: sa'd^cstid dat ai fad troi douz 
papers.” “Good!” the manager said. “I think it was 
peipaz ” “ gud /” da mcenid^a sed. “ai pitjh it zvaz 
(here) 
wise of you to hunt about a bit before sending cables 
zvaiz av ju: ta h.\nt a'baut a bit In fa: sen dig heiblz 
all over the Continent.” 
a:l ouva da kantinant 
Marshall and Storm stayed with the Edwards family 
mu.fal and sta:m steid zvid di edzvadz fcemili 
686 
The Fifty-Eighth (58th) Chapter. 
for dinner, and naturally, the conversation turned to 
fa dina, and ncrtfrali, da kanva'scifan ta:nd ta 
the subject of ships. “I’ve visited Portsmouth several 
da SAbdykt av fips. “aiv vizitid pa:tsmap scvral 
times,” Marshall said, “and I think it would be hard 
taiinz” ma:fal sed, (< and ai pifjk it wad bi: haul 
to find another harbour with so many types of ships 
ta faind a'n\da ha:ba wid sou meni taips av fips 
in one place. The entire harbour is full of all kinds entire -- whole 
in wah pleis. di in'taia ha:bar iz ful av o:l kaindz 
of ships.” “You know,” Mr. Edwards explained to 
av fips." %i ju: non" mistar edwadz iks'pleind ta 
Storm, “Portsmouth is one of the most important bases 
st arm, (( pa:tsrnap iz wah av da moust ini' pa: taut beisiz 
for British warships. In fact, it has been so ever since 
fa britif %va:fips. in fcvkt, it haz bi:n sou cva sins 
Roman times, for the shape of the South Coast makes 
rouman taimz , fa da feip av da saup koust mciks 
a fine natural harbour here. Within this natural harbour, 
a fain ncctjral ha:ba hia. ivid'in dis ncctfral ha:ba, 
two harbours have been built, one for warships and 
tu: lurbaz hav bi:n bill, iv\n fa to a: fips an 
one for other ships.” 
WAn far Ada fips ” 
“And outside the harbour,” Marshall added, “is the 
iC and 'aut'said da Jia:ba” ma:fal cedid, u iz da 
place for all the small boats owned by the people who 
pleis far a:l da sma:l bouts ound bai da pi:pl hu: 
687 
Chapter Fifty-Eight (58). 
stay there in the summer. I’ve been there on a summer 
stci be dr in dd sauio. aiv bi:n dedr on d SAind 
battleship ~ 
warship 
day, and it really was a wonderful sight: great battle- 
dr/, dnd it ridli zvoz o zvAnddful salt: greit bcetl - 
ships and small, all painted grey, aircraft carriers with 
fips on srno:l, o:I peintid grei. eokra'.ft kceriaz zvid 
mcFaft 
their broad white decks for aeroplanes, or aircraft, to 
bed bro:d hwait deks fdr edrdpleinz, o:r eokra:ft, td 
carrier 
land on, black steamers, aeroplanes starting from and 
Icend on , blcek sti:moz, edrdpleinz sta:tiy from on 
landing on the aircraft carriers, and moving in and out 
lerndiy on bi eokra:ft kccridz . on nneviy in ond ant 
aeroplane 
or aircraft 
among all these, there were many small boats with 
d'niAy o:l bi:z, bed zvo: mcni smo:l bouts zvib 
one aircraft 
two aircraft 
their white sails bright in the sun. We saw a great 
bed hzvait seilz brait in bd sail zvi: so: o greit 
white steamer far out at sea, too. Somebody said it 
hzvait sti:me fa:r aut ot si:, tu:. sAwbedi sed it 
was the ‘Queen Mary’. It’s strange to think that they 
zvdz bd ( kzvi:n meori\ its streind$ to piyk bot bei 
accommodate ~ 
have room for 
can now build ships large enough to accommodate several 
kon nan bild fips lu:d$ i'n\f tu o'koniodrif sevrol 
thousand passengers and sailors.” 
pauzond pccsind^oz on seiloz” 
“That’s enough people to fill a small town,” Storm 
<( bcets i'liAf pi:pl to fil o smo:l taun” sto:m 
said. “But, of course, that’s unusual. The boat I came 
sed. “bat, av ko:s, beets An'jn.^udl. bo bout ai keim 
688 
The Fifty-Eighth (58th) Chapter. 
over in accommodated 300, one of the sailors 
ouvdr in d'komddeitid pri: h\ndrdd, wah dv dd seildz 
told me. — What a crowd there must be to see all see off = say 
tould mi:. — hwot d kraud dea mast bi: td si: o:l ^ 00ci to 
those passengers off!” he added, thinking of all the 
douz pcesindyz o:f!” hi: cedid, pitjkiy av o:l da 
people who had been there last year to see their friends 
pi:pi hu: hdd bi:n ded la:st jid td si: ded frendz 
off when he left the Continent. 
o:f hwen hi: left dd kontinant. 
After dinner they passed a pleasant hour in front of 
a:ftd dina del pa:st d plesnt audr in frAnt dv 
the fire, as it had grown a bit cool in the evening. 
dd faid, dz it hdd groun d bit ku:l in di i:vniy. 
When they rose to leave, Marion decided to walk with 
hwcn del rouz td li:v, mcerian di'saidid td wo:k wid 
them to the bus. “Wait a moment!” she called to them 
ddin td dd 1 ?as. “weit d mounidnt!” fi: ko:ld td ddin 
from the stairs, while they were saying good-bye to 
fram dd stedz, hivail dei wd: seiiy gud'bai td 
Mr. and Mrs. Edwards. “I just want to get my 
mist-dr dnd misiz edwddz. “ai d$Ast wont td get mcii 
coat and a cap.” 
bout dnd d keep” 
“What! A new hat again?” cried her father, as she 
({ hwjt! d nju: hcct d'gein?” kraid hd: fa:dd, dz fi: 
appeared again with a bright green cap. “It’s not a 
d'pidd d'gein wid d. brait gri:n keep. “its ndt d 
689 
Chapter Fifty-Eight (58). 
hat, daddy, it’s a cap, and I made it myself, so it hasn’t 
heel, deedi, its a keep, and ai meid it mai'self, sou it heeznt 
even cost you a shilling.” 
i:van hast ju: a filiy” 
“Be careful now, my boy,” Mr. Edwards said to Storm 
“bi: keaful nau, mai boi,” rnistar edwadz sed ta sta:m 
with a smile. “You see, she’s trying to give you the 
wid a smail. “ju: si:, fi:z traiitj ta giv ju: di 
impression that she’s a great little woman for saving 
im'prefan dat fi:z a greit litl zvuman fa seiviy 
money. But don’t trust her! Keep her under your 
m\ni. bat donut trASt ha:! ki:p ha:r Anda jo: 
thumb right from the beginning. It’s the only way to 
pAin rait frain da bi'giniy. its di ounli ivei ta 
make good wives of them.” “Is it?” asked Mrs. Edwards. 
meik gud waivz av dam ” “is it?" a:skt misis cdivadz. 
“Perhaps I should tell Marion how I made a good 
“pa'keeps ai fad tel nicerian hau ai mcid a gud 
husband of you?” “It’s very kind of you to call me 
JiAzband av ju:?” “its veri kaind av ju: ta ka:l mi: 
that,” her husband answered with a laugh. “But per- 
deet” ha: JiAzband a:nsad wid a la:f. “bat pa- 
hangs you had better not. It might make him afraid.” 
'keeps ju: had beta not. it mait incik him a'freid” 
At last they all said good-night again, and the three 
at la:st dei j .7 sed gud'nait a'gein, and da pri: 
young people left the house. 
)avj pi: pi left da haus. 
690 
The Fifty-Eighth (58th) Chapter. 
EXERCISE A. 
Mr. Edwards — to know why there was such a great 
— at Portsmouth. He wanted Marshall to send a — 
to Portsmouth, and perhaps also — to their connections 
on the Continent. Storm — up Marshall and gave him 
the — from the manager, and Marshall answered that 
he would ask a man at the customs office, who was a 
— friend of his, to help them to find out where the 
— was. 
Young women nowadays no longer need their parents’ 
— to marry, but Mr. Edwards would gladly have — 
Marion permission to marry Storm. He told Storm 
that he had often made the — that it was necessary 
to use a strong hand with women. Marion had for 
some time tried to — Storm from talking about mar¬ 
rying her, but at last he got his chance. 
When Mrs. Edwards asked her husband if he had not 
noticed anything, he — his head instead of saying “no”. 
Mr. Edwards knew how to use his — in his work, but 
he said that his wife was much — than he was. Storm’s 
and Marion’s plans for the future had not taken — yet. 
It made Mrs. Edwards very — to think that Storm 
must leave them soon, but her husband told her that 
he knew the — of the — department that — with 
foreigners staying in England. He would tell him that 
Storm’s special work could not be finished — three 
months. Storm had told Marshall to — the news about 
Marion and him like the crown jewels. 
WORDS: 
demand 
police 
delay 
chief of police 
chief 
personal 
message 
deal 
dealt 
wise 
unwanted 
prevent 
brain 
guard 
ring up 
observation 
permission 
error 
wire 
cable 
cable (verb) 
entire 
see off 
sad 
hopeful 
warship 
battleship 
land (verb) 
rough 
grant 
helpful 
shape 
aircraft carrier 
aircraft 
16/3 
691 
Chapter Fifty-Eight (58). 
aeroplane 
base 
accommodate 
bless 
cap 
shake 
shook 
shaken 
wonderful 
within 
bag 
Portsmouth is one of the most important — for Bri¬ 
tish —.-are ships with a broad deck for — to — 
upon. When people go away on trips, their friends 
usually come to — them —. Marion herself had made 
the — which she wore that evening. 
EXERCISE B. 
Have you ever had anything to do with the police? ... 
Have you ever been up in an aeroplane? ... What is 
an aircraft carrier? ... Have you ever been out in a 
bad snow storm? ... Have you ever visited a foreign 
country? ... At what time of the year did you go there? 
... What was the weather like? ... What was the pur¬ 
pose of your visit to that country? ... 
EXERCISE C. GRAMMAR. 
Shall and will are used with the infinitive of a verb 
to make the future tense. Examples: I shall come to¬ 
morrow. When will your uncle come? I should be 
glad to see you this evening. He would write me a 
letter as soon as possible. 
Shall and should are generally used after ‘I’ and ‘we’, 
and as a rule will and would are used after ‘you’, ‘he’ 
(‘she’, ‘it’, and a noun in the singular), ‘you’, and 
‘they’ (and a noun in the plural). For instance: I shall 
692 
The Fifty-Eighth (58th) Chapter. 
write my exercise to-morrow. Will you go with me 
to town to-morrow? He will soon learn how to speak 
this language. If you would come to-morrow, we should 
be glad to receive you. They would have given him 
the money gladly. 
Questions: 
How is the future tense made? ... Which verb is used 
after C P and ( we’ in the future tense? ... Which verb 
is used after ‘you’, ‘he’ (‘she’, ‘it’, and a noun in the 
singular), ‘they 5 (and a noun in the plural)? ... Write 
four sentences in the future tense. ... 
693 
