Chapter Fifty-Nine (59). 
The Fifty-Ninth (59th) Chapter. 
NEW FRIENDS 
A few weeks after Storm and Mr. Edwards had written 
a fju: u'i:ks a:fta sta:m and mistar edwadz had ritn 
to the police to get permission for Storm to stay, 
ta da pa'li:s ta get pa'mifan fa sta:m ta stei, 
Mr. Jenkins rang up and told Mr. Edwards that he 
mista d^eykinz rcey .\p and tould mistar edwadz dat hi: 
had been able to arrange everything: Storm might stay 
had bi:n eibl tu a'reind$ evripiy: starm mait stei 
on for another year. 
an far a'nAda jia. 
So Marion and Marshall and a small number of other 
sou mcerian and ma:fal and a sma:l nAmbar av a da 
young people, friends of Marion’s and Marshall’s, and 
jAy pi:pi, frendz av mcerianz and ma:falz, and 
now Storm’s friends, too, decided that they had better 
nan sta:mz frendz, tu:, di'saidid dat dei had beta 
‘do something about his education’, as they expressed 
Ulu: SAmpiy a'baut hiz cdju:'keijan\ az dei iks'prest 
it, and teach him everything he ought to know about 
it, and ti:tf him evripiy hi: a:t ta nou a'baut 
the country and its people in order to become a true 
da kAntri and its pi:pi in a:da ta bi'kAm a tru: 
Englishman. 
iyglijman. 
694 
The Fifty-Ninth (59th) Chapter. 
It all started in fun, of course, but they soon became 
it a:l sta.tid in f\n, av ka:s f bat dei su:n bi'keim 
really interested in this ‘education business 5 . When- 
riali intristid in dis c edju:'keifan biznishwen- 
ever possible, they went in the evenings to hear English 
'eva pasabl, dei went in di i:vniyz ta hiar iyglif 
men of science speak about different subjects in which 
men av saians spi:k a'baut difrant sAbd^ikts in hwitj 
they were interested — natural history, for instance. 
dei iva:r intristid — ncetfral histari, far instans. 
Afterwards, they would go either to Marshall’s or to 
a:ftawadz, dei wad gou aidfa ta ma:jalz o: ta 
Marion’s home and have long arguments about what 
nicerianz houm and hcev lag a:gjumants a'baut hwat 
they had heard. At first, the tea-table would be ready 
dei had ha:d. at fa:st, da ti:teibl wad bi: redi 
for them when they arrived, but soon the visits grew 
fa: dam hwen dei a'raivd, bat su:n da vizits gru: 
so frequent that Mrs. Marshall and Mrs. Edwards had 
sou fri:kwant dat misiz ma.fal and misiz edwadz heed 
to let them boil the water, make the tea, and lay the 
ta let dam bail da wa:ta, meik da ti:, and lei da 
tea-table themselves. They all helped gladly, of course, 
ti'.tcibl dam'selvz. dei a:l helpt glcedli, av ka:s, 
and so on these evenings the house was filled with 
and sou an di:z i'.vniyz da haus waz fild wid 
young voices in hot argument from kitchen to dining- 
j\y vaisiz in hat a:gjumant fram kitfin ta dainiy- 
afterwards = 
after this 
695 
Chapter Fifty-Nine (59). 
curtain 
circle 
semi-circle 
He dreams, he 
dreamt, he has 
dreamt [dri:mz, 
dremt, dremt]. 
rocks 
healthy = in good 
health 
room. On such nights, they would draw the curtains, 
rum. on sAtf naits, dei wdd dro: da kaitnz, 
put out the electric light in the middle of the room, 
put aut di i'lektrik lait in da midi av da ru:m, 
and sit in a semi-circle in front of the fire, talking 
and sit in a semisa:kl in frAnt av da faia, taikiy 
about different subjects, with only the circle of yellow 
a'bant d if rant SAbdykts, zvid ounli da sa:kl av jelou 
light shed by a small lamp over the fire-place. They 
lait fed bai a small Icemp ouva da faiapleis. dei 
would sometimes be lost in thought, dreaming wonder- 
zvad SAmtaimz bi: last in fait, driimiy zvAnda- 
ful dreams about the future. 
fitl driirnz a'baut da fjuitfa. 
Mr. Edwards was very pleased with all this. Like 
mistar edzvadz zvaz veri pliizd zvid ail dis. laik 
most fathers, he had tried with many wise arguments 
monst faidaz, hi: had traid zvid meni zvaiz aigjumants 
to show his daughter that knowledge is the rock upon 
ta fou hiz da :ta dat nalid$ iz da rak a* pan 
which young people should build their future. And 
hzvitf jAij piipl fad bild dea fjuitfa . and 
Marion had, like most healthy girls, said “Yes, father”, 
nuerian heed, laik moust helpi gailz, sed <( jes, faida 3 \ 
and then afterwards forgotten all about it. She had 
and den aiftazvadz fa'gain ail a'baut it. fii had 
dreamt again her own rosy dreams, in which she would 
dremt a'gein hair oun rouzi driimz, in hzvitf fi: zvad 
696 
The Fifty-Ninth (59th) Chapter. 
always, through some happy chance, be c on top of the 
a:lwaz, pru: s\m hcepi tfa:ns, bi: ‘an top av da 
world’ like an eagle on a rock. 
wa:ld* laik an i:gl an a rak. 
She would see herself in the theatre, perhaps, standing 
ji: wad si: ha:'self in da piata, pa'keeps, steendiy 
in front of the curtain with her arms full of flowers, 
in fr\nt av da ka:tn wid ha:r a:ms ful av flauas, 
smiling across the hundreds of electric lights at her 
smailiy a'kras da hAndrads av i'lektrik laits at ha: 
feet to a house full of shouting and admiring people. 
fi:t tu a haus ful av fautiy and ad'maiariy pi:pi. 
Or she would paint beautiful pictures, and crowds 
a: fi: wad peint bju:taful piktfaz, and krauds 
would come to admire her art. 
wad kxm tu ad'maia ha:r a:t. 
“She’s learning quite a different art now,” her wise 
“fi:z la:niy kzvciit a difrant a:t nan” ha: zvais 
mother thought to herself, when she saw the interest 
mAda pa:t ta ha:'self, hwen fi: sa: di intrist 
with which Marion took part in the discussions, “the 
wid hwitf meerian tuk pa:t in da dis'kAfanz, “di 
art of living in a world full of plain facts, and liking it.” 
a:t av liviy in a zva:ld ful av plein feekts, an laikiy it ” 
Mrs. Edwards even had to stop the girl now and 
misiz edwadz i:van heed ta stap da ga:l nau and 
then. She had begun to hurry through her meals in 
den. fi: had bi'gAn ta hAri pru: ha: mi:Is in 
eagle 
697 
Chapter Fifty-Nine (59). 
chief = most 
important 
order to get on with some interesting study or other, 
o:da ta get on wid saih intristiy stAdi o:r a da, 
as if she thought eating a waste of time. 
az if fi: po:t i:tiy a weist av taim. 
“Be careful, child! You’re healthy enough now, but if 
“bi: keaful, tfoild! jua helpi i'nAp nau, bat if 
you keep up that speed, you’ll make yourself ill.” 
ju: ki:p Ap dcet spi:d, ju:l meik jo:'self il” 
“Let her work, my dear,” her husband said, “it won’t 
(( let ha: wa:k , mai dia 33 ha: hAzband sed, “it ivount 
last very long. As soon as she has to start arranging 
la:st. veri log. az su:n az fi: hcez ta sta:t a'reindyy 
everything regarding their home, her interests will be 
evripiy ri'ga:diy dea houm , ha:r intrists wil bi: 
divided more equally between study and other kinds 
di'vaidid mo:r i:kwali bi'twi:n stAdi and Ada kciindz 
of work. The chief thing is that she’s learning to use 
av wa:k. da tfi:f piy iz dat fi:z la:niy ta jn:z 
her brain now and not just dreaming away her time.” 
ha: brein nau an not d^Ast dri:miy a'wei ha: taim ” 
“I do hope you’re right,” Mrs. Edwards said. “I am, 
“ai du: houp jua rait, 33 misiz edwadz sed . “ai cem, 
my dear, you may be sure of that,” her husband 
mai dia, ju: mei bi: fuar av dcet, 33 ha: hAzband 
answered. “Her chief reason for this sudden interest 
a.nsad. “ha: tfi:f ri:zn fa dis SAdn intrist 
in science is, in plain words, that she doesn’t want her 
in saians iz, in plein wa:dz, dat fi: dAznt wont ha: 
698 
The Fifty-Ninth (59th) Chapter. 
future husband to think her too foolish.” 
fju:tfa liAzband ta fiyk ha: tu: fu:lif” 
On a fine day at the beginning of October, a party 
an a fain dei at da biginiy av ak'touba, a pa:ti 
consisting of the usual small group of friends had gone 
kan'sistiy av da ju:^nal sma:l gru:p av frends had gan 
into the country for the week-end. They had decided 
inta da kAntri fa da 'wi:k'end. dei had di'saidid 
to stay the night at a village about 20 miles from 
ta stei da nait at a vilid 3 a'baut twenti mails fram 
London, and from there to go for walks in the woods 
Lxndan, and fram dea ta gou fa wa:ks in da wudz 
and the surrounding country. 
and da sa'raundirj kAntri. 
As soon as they had had their tea on Saturday, 
az su:n az dei had heed dea ti: an scetadi, 
they started out for their first walk from the village, 
dei sta:tid aut fa dea fa:st wa:k fram da vilid 3, 
although the sun was already low in the western sky. 
a:l'dou da SAn waz a:Vredi lou in da westan skai. 
“Let's sit on the grass a bit and watch the sun setting,” 
“lets sit an da gra:s a bit an watf da SAn setiy” 
Marion suggested, when they reached a small hill. 
mcerian sa'd^estid, hzven dei ri.tjt 3 sma:l hil. 
“Oh, it's wonderful!” she cried. “I wish I could paint 
“ou, its WAndaful!” fi: kraid. “ai wif ai kad peint 
it all — the wood, the small groups of trees in the 
it a:l — da wud, da sma:l gru:ps av tri:z in da 
group = a 
number of persons 
or objects 
village = a very 
small town in the 
country 
699 
Chapter Fifty-Nine (59). 
fields, the village!” 
fi’.ldz, da vilid 3/" 
“There, there, don’t be sorry, Marion. I’ll buy you a 
“be a, bed, dount hi: sort, mcerian. ail bai ju: a 
nice picture post-card when we get back.” “You’re 
nais piktjd poustka:d hzven wi: get bcek” “juar 
impossible,” Marion laughed. “Well, there’s nothing 
im'pasabl,” mcerian la: ft. “wel, daz nApiy 
left of the sun now. Shall we go on?” “Have you 
left av da s\n nau. fal wi: gou an?” “liav ju: 
noticed that there are hardly any birds left now?” 
noutist dat dea ha:dli eni ba:dz left nauf” 
Storm asked as they rose to go. “At least you don’t 
sta:m a:skt az dei rouz ta gou . “at li:st ju: dount 
hear any birds singing.” “That’s because it’s autumn,” 
hiar eni ba:dz siyiy” (C beets bi'kaz its a:tam,” 
Marion replied. “There are still many birds that 
mcerian ri'plaid. (( dea stil meni ba:dz bat 
haven’t left the country yet, but they don’t sing in the 
hcevnt left da kAntri jet, bat dei dount siy in di 
autumn.” “Marshall!” she suddenly cried. “Where 
a:tam.” “ma:fal!” fi: SAdnli kraid. {( hwear 
are you taking us?” “Into this field,” he answered 
a: ju: teikiy as V 3 u inta bis fi:ldhi: a:nsad 
and began to open a big gate. “What’s the matter? 
and bi'gcen tu oupan a big geit. “hwats da mcetaf 
Are you afraid of the cows?” “They do have such 
a: ju: a'freid av da kauz?” “dei du: heev SAtf 
700 
The Fifty-Ninth (59th) Chapter. 
very big horns,” she replied. “Yes, couldn’t we go 
veri big ho:nz,” fi : ri'plaid. “jes, kudnt zvi: gou 
another way?” asked Ellen, Marion’s friend. “I don’t 
a'nAda zvei?” a:skt elin, mcerianz frcnd. “ai dount 
like the look of those horns, either.” “But this is 
laik da luk av douz ha:nz, aid a” <c bat dis iz 
the more direct way,” he said. “We don’t like going 
da mo: di'rekt zvei,” hi: sed. “zvi: dount laik gouiy 
that way, do we, Ellen?” Marion answered. “I’m 
dost zvei, du: zvi:, elin?” mcerian a:nsad. “aim 
sure those cows are going to start running towards 
fua douz kauz a: gouiy ta sta:t rAniy ta'zvo:dz 
us the moment we’re inside the gate.” “All right — 
as da mourn ant zviar in'said da geit.” “o:l rait — 
I give up, then!” Marshall said. 
ai giv Ap, den!” ma:fal sed. 
Half an hour later they were back in the village. It 
ha:f an aua leita dei zva: bcek in da vilid 3. it 
was still too pleasant out of doors to go inside, so 
zvaz stil tu: pleznt aut av do:z ta gou in'said, sou 
they decided to walk about the village and look at 
dei di'saidid ta zvo:k a'baut da vilid 3 and luk at 
the houses, some of which were very old. 
da hauziz, SAm av hzvitj zva: veri ould. 
“It’s strange to think,” Storm said to the others, pointing 
“its streind 3 ta piyk,” sto:m sed ta di a daz, pointiy 
out an old house with a beautiful old door, “how much 
aut an ould haus zvid a bju:taful ould da:, “hau mAtf 
701 
Chapter Fifty-Nine (59). 
spent (here) = 
used 
money and work was spent in the old days to make 
niAni an wa:k wdz spent in di ould deiz td meik 
the houses beautiful. Look at this door, for example. 
da hauziz bju:taful. Ink at dis da:, far ig'za.mpl. 
And yet they did nothing at all to make their houses 
an jet dei did nApirj at o:l ta meik dea hauziz 
healthy to live in. They didn't even have drains to 
helpi ta liv in. dei didnt i:van hav dreinz ta 
take the dirty water away from the houses, but just 
teik da da:ti wa:tar a'wei fram da hauziz , bat d^Ast 
threw it out of the windows into the streets or the 
pru: it aut av da windouz inta da stri:ts a: da 
gardens.” 
ga.dnz. 33 
“And so, of course,” said Hardy, Ellen's brother, “many 
“an sou, av ka:s, 33 sed ha:di, elinz brAda, “meni 
people died every year of all the diseases that are the 
pi:pi daid evri jia av a:l da di'zi:ziz dat a: da 
consequences of dirty people living in dirty houses. 
kansikwansiz av da:ti pi: pi livirj in da:ti hauziz. 
In the East, those special diseases are still very common. 
in di i:st, douz spejal di'zi:ziz a: stil veri kaman. 
But even in many countries in Europe, you’re almost 
bat i:van in meni k\ntriz in juarap, juar a:lmoust 
sure to get typhoid fever if you drink water that 
fua ta get taifaid fi:va if ju: driyk wa:ta dat 
hasn't been boiled first.” 
hceznt bi:n baild fa:st.” 
702 
The Fifty-Ninth (59th) Chapter. 
“What a lot of trouble!” Marion said. “You would 
“knot a lat av tr\bl!” mcerian sed. ¥ ju: wad 
think that it would be much less trouble to clean up 
piyk dat it wad bi: niAtj les tr\bl ta kli:n a p 
those places and have drains from all the houses, or 
douz pleisiz an hav dreinz fram a:l da hauziz, o: 
whatever it is that needs to be done.” “You say this 
hwat'evar it iz dat ni:dz ta bi: d\n” “ju: sei dis 
almost as if you would like to do it yourself,” Storm 
a.lmoust az if ju: wad laik ta du: it ja: 1 self” sta:m 
said with a smile at her serious face. “I would,” she 
sed wid a smciil at ha: siarias feis. “cii wud” ji: 
answered. “Only I should be afraid to go to the 
ci:nsad . “ounli cii fad bi: a'freid ta gou ta di 
East and perhaps get one of those diseases myself. 
i:st an pa'hceps get wah av douz dtzi'.ziz mai'self. 
My father has a friend who got malaria when he was 
max fa:da liaz a frend hu: gat ma'learia hwen hi: waz 
in India, and he still gets very ill at times, when the 
in indja, an hi: stil gets veri il at taimz, hwen da 
fever is ‘burning his brains out’, as he says. — But 
fi.var iz ‘barmy hiz breinz aut y , az hi: sez. — bat 
let’s talk about something a little more pleasant,” she 
lets ta:k a'baut SAmpiy a litl ma: pleznt,” fi: 
continued. “Shall we go in and have our supper 
kan l tinju:d. “fal wi: gou in an hcev aua SApa 
now?” 
nau?” 
703 
Chapter Fifty-Nine (59). 
“Yes, let’s go in,” Ellen said. “I’d like to put on another 
“jes, lets gou in” elm .. sed . “aid laik td put on a'nAda 
pair of shoes. I was foolish enough to go walking in 
pear av ju:z. ai waz fu:lif i'nAf ta gou waikirj in 
new shoes, and, of course, they’re still too tight to be 
nju: fu:z, and, av ka:s, dea stil tu: tait ta bi: 
comfortable. The consequence is that my feet hurt.” 
kAmfatabl. da konsikwans iz dat mai fi:t ha:t” 
“Isn’t that just like girls? Why don’t you buy shoes 
“iznt dcet d$Ast laik ga:lzf hwai dount ju: bai fu:z 
that are big enough?” her brother asked. “If you 
dat a: big i'nAf?” ha: brAdar a:skt. “if ju: 
can’t spread your toes a bit in new shoes, you may 
ka:nt spred jo: touz a bit in nju: ju:z, ju: mei 
be sure that they’re too tight to be comfortable.” 
bi: fua dat dea tu: tait ta bi: kAinfatabl ” 
“There he goes again,” Ellen laughed. “Really, you 
“dea hi: gouz a'gein” elin la:ft. “riali, ju: 
should have been a doctor, I think — always talking 
fad hav bi:n a dokta, ai pifjk — o:lwaz to:kirj 
about diseases and what’s good for you and what isn’t. 
a'baut di'zi:ziz an hwots gud fa ju: an hwot iznt . 
You’ll be pleased to hear,” she said to the other young 
ju:l bi: pli:zd ta hia” ji: sed ta di Ada jAtj 
men, “that he has found out that beer is good for the 
men, “dat hi: haz found aut dat biar iz gud fa da 
stomach.” 
stAmak” 
704 
The Fifty-Ninth (59th) Chapter. 
“That’s right,” Hardy explained in a serious voice. 
“dcets rait” ha:di iks'pleind in a siarias vois. 
“You see, when I was younger I didn’t drink beer ...” 
“ju: si:, hwen ai was jAgga ai didnt driyk bia . . .” 
“Father wouldn’t let him,” Ellen interrupted, smiling. 
“fa: da wudnt let him” elin inta'rAptid, smailitj. 
“He thought it was a waste of money.” “I had a lot 
“hi: po:t it waz a weist av m\ni“ai heed a lot 
of trouble with my digestion, then,” he went on. 
av trAbl wid mai di'd^estfan, den” hi: went on. 
“No doubt because you were always filling yourself 
“nou daut bi'koz ju: wa:r o:lwaz filirj jo:'self 
with sweets,” she interrupted again. “... but now 
wid swi:ts, 33 fi: inta'rAptid a'gein. “. .. bat nau 
that I have begun to drink beer,” he continued, paying 
dat ai hav bi'gAn ta driyk bia/ 3 hi: kan'tinju:d, peiirj 
no attention to her, “there’s nothing the matter with 
nou a'ten fan ta ha:, “daz nApirj da meet a wid 
me any more.” “Perhaps not with your digestion,” 
mi: eni mo:. 33 “pa'hceps not wid jo: di'd^estjan/ 3 
Ellen said, “but I believe that I have seen you when 
elin sed, “bat ai bi'li:v dat ai hav si:n ju: hwen 
your beer was giving you a bit of trouble — ‘tight’ 
jo: bia waz givirj ju: a bit av trAbl — c tait y 
or ‘drunk’, I would have called you.” “What is 
o: ‘ drAyk ’, ai wad hav ko:ld ju:. 33 “hwot iz 
my crime,” the poor fellow cried at last, “that I 
mai kraim/ 3 da pua felon braid at la:st, “dat ai 
705 
Chapter Fifty-Nine (59). 
should be punished by having such a sister?” “Peace, 
fad bi: pAnift bai hceviy s\tf a sista?” “pi'-s, 
children!” laughed Storm. “Let’s all have a glass of 
tjildran!” la:ft sto:m. “lets o:l hcev a gla:s av 
beer and see if that won’t make her a little gentler 
bia an si: if dcet wount meik ha:r a litl d^entla 
with you.” 
wid ju:” 
He called the waitress and ordered their beer. “We 
hi: ka:ld da weitris and a: dad dea bia. “wi: 
fix = arrange 
haven’t fixed anything about our rooms yet. How 
hcevnt fikst enipiy a'bant ana ru:mz jet. hau 
much do you charge for rooms here?” he asked her, 
tnAtf du: ju: tfa:d 3 fa ru:mz hia?” hi: a:skt ha:, 
when she brought the beer. “Single rooms nine 
hwen ji: bro:t da bia. “siygl ru:mz nain 
shillings, double rooms fifteen shillings,” she replied. 
filiyz, dAbl ru:mz fifti:n filiyz/' fi: ri plaid. 
“We’d better take single rooms,” he said. 
“wi:d beta teik siygl ru:mz,” hi: sed. 
They sat for some time talking and watching the other 
del scet fa SAm taim ta:kiy and watjiy di Ada 
guests in the room; but as they were all rather tired, 
gests in da ru:m; bat az dei wa:r o:l ra:da taiad, 
they soon went up to bed. 
dei sum went Ap ta bed. 
Next morning they were up early, so that they might 
nekst rnamiy dei wa:r Ap a:li, sou dat dei mait 
706 
The Fifty-Ninth (59th) Chapter. 
have a long day for their walk. “I heard you had 
hcev a loy dei fa dea wa:k. “ai ha:d ju: had 
trouble with your feet last night,” the waitress said 
trAbl wid jo: fi:t la:st nait,” da weitris sed 
to Ellen, when she was bringing their breakfast. “Are 
tu elin, hwen fi: was briyiy dea brekfast. “a: 
they better to-day?” “As a matter of fact, they aren’t,” 
dei beta ta'dei?” “az a mcetar av fcekt, dei a:nt” 
Ellen replied. “They hurt me even if I touch them 
elin ri plaid. “dei ha:t mi: i:van if ai t\tf dam 
with my fingers.” 
wid mai fiygaz” 
“I thought that might be the case, so I’ve brought a 
“ai po:t dcet mait bi: da keis, sou aiv bro:t a 
small bottle of some oil that I always use. Waitresses 
smo:l botl av sam oil dat ai o:lwaz ju:z. weitrisiz 
often have trouble with their feet, you know. Just rub 
o:fn hav trAbl wid dea fi:t, ju: nou. d$ASt rAb 
a little oil into the skin of your feet, and they will 
a litl oil into da skin av jo: fi:t, an dei wil 
feel much better.” “Thanks! That’s very kind of you, 
fi:l mAtf beta ” “pceyks! dcets veri kaind av ju: f 
I’m sure. It’s no fun walking when your feet give 
aim jua. its nou fAn wo:kiy hwen jo: fi:t giv 
you pain.” 
ju: pein” 
In the afternoon, when they were returning from their 
in di a:fta'nu:n, hwen dei wa: ri'ta:niy from dea 
707 
Chapter Fifty-Nine (59). 
long walk, they met a group of about 20 people, 
by wo:k, dei met a gru:p av a'baut twenti pi:pi, 
all carrying bags or baskets full of different plants 
o:l kceriiy bcegz o: ba:skits ful dv difrant pla:nts 
that they had picked in the fields or the woods. “I 
dat dei had pikt in da fi:lds o: da wudz. “ai 
wonder who they are,” Storm said to Marion. “They 
WAnda hu: dei asta:m sed ta mcerian. “dei 
all seem to be workers, except that tall man over there; 
o:l si:m ta bi: wa:kaz, ik'sept dcet ta:l mean ouva dea; 
but at the same time they look like a class of school- 
bat at da seim taim dei luk laik a kla:s av sku:l- 
children who are out studying natural history with 
tfildran hu: a:r aut stAdiiy ncetjral histari wid 
their teacher.” “Perhaps they're both,” Marion replied. 
dea ti:tfa” “pa'heaps dea boup” mcerian ri'plaid. 
“You see, several of our universities send out travelling 
“jit: si:, sevral av aua ju:ni'va:sitiz send aut treevliy 
teachers all over the country. If a sufficiently large 
ti.tjaz o:l ouva da kAntri. if 3 sa'fifantli la:d 3 
number of people in a town wish to take up one or 
nAinbar av pi:pi in a taun wif ta teik a p WAn 0 : 
more subjects of study and are willing to work 
mo: SAbdykts av stAdi and a: wiliy ta wa:k 
seriously, one of the universities arrange to send a 
siariasli, WAn av da ju:ni'va:sitiz a'reind 3 ta send a 
teacher to them. They’re charged nothing for this, as 
ti:tfa tu dam. dea tfa:d^d nApiy fa dis, az 
708 
The Fifty-Ninth (59th) Chapter. 
the teacher is paid by the university. Many people, 
da ti:tfar iz peid bai da ju:ni'va:siti. meni pi:pl, 
for whom it would be impossible to study at a university, 
fa hu:m it wad bi: im'posabl ta stAdi at a ju:ni'va:siti, 
have been able to take up some study in this way and 
hav bi:n eibl ta teik Ap sam stAdi in dis wei an 
have gained really useful knowledge of their subject.” 
hav geind riali ju:sful nolid 3 av dea SAbd^ikt” 
“What a fine idea!” Storm said. “It gives work to 
“hwot a fain ai'dia!” sto:m sed. “it givz wa:k ta 
men of science as teachers, and it gives some idea of 
men av saians az ti:tjaz, and it givz sam ai'dia av 
science to people who have to work, but want to get 
saians ta pi:pi hu: hcev ta wa:k, bat wont ta get 
more education. Really, I’m rather proud of c us’ 
mo:r edju:'keifan. riali, aim ra:da praud av c AS y 
English.” “Listen to those four men playing cards at 
iyglif ” “lisn ta douz fo: men pleiiy ka:dz at 
the next table! I’m afraid you won’t feel so proud 
da nekst teibl! aim a'freid ju: wount fi:l sou praud 
of ‘us’ English when you hear their stories,” Hardy 
av c AS y iyglif hwen ju: hia dea sto:riz,” ha:di 
said, when they were having supper that evening. “One 
sed, hwen dei wo: hceviy SApa dcet i:vniy. “wau 
of them seems to be the village policeman. They have 
av dam si:mz ta bi: da vilid 3 pa'li:sman. dei hav 
been talking of nothing but fights and blood and crime 
bi:n to:kiy av nApiy bat faits an blAd an kraim 
card 
709 
Chapter Fifty-Nine (59). 
since they came, things that have taken place in this 
sins dei keim, piyz dat hav teikn pleis in dis 
little village. Their cards, too, are just as dirty as 
litl vilidfr ded ka:dz, tu:, a: d$Ast dz da:ti dz 
their stories. I shouldn’t like to touch them Look at 
dea sto.riz. ai judnt laik td tAtj ddm. luk dt 
Marion! She has been listening, too; she’s quite pale.” 
marian! Ji: hdz bi:n lisniy, tu:; fi:z kwait peil” 
“How are you feeling? Anything wrong?” Storm asked 
“hau a: ju: fi:liy? enipiy ray?” sto:m a:skt 
her. “I do feel a little sick,” she replied. “It must 
ha:. “ai du: fi:l d litl sik ” ji: ri'plaid. “it mast 
be because I’m tired, but it was made worse by having 
bi: bi'kaz aim taiad, bat it waz meid wa:s bai haviy 
to listen to that man telling all those stories. If there’s 
ta lisn ta dat man teliy o:l douz sta:riz. if daz 
time before our train leaves, I think I’ll go and lie 
taim bi'fa:r aua trein li:vz, ai piyk ail gou an lai 
down a bit.” She left the table rather suddenly and 
daun a bit” ji: left da teibl ra:da SAdnli and 
ran upstairs. The waitress had seen what had happened, 
ran Ap'steaz. da weitris had si:n hwat had hapnd, 
however, and a moment later, she was standing at the 
hau'eva, and a moumant leita, fi: waz standiy at da 
fat policeman’s table. “You’re a fine one, you are! 
fat paHi'.smanz teibl . “juar a fain WAn, ju: a:! 
See what you’ve done now. You’ve made that poor 
si: hwot ju:v d\n nau. ju:v meid dat pua 
710 
The Fifty-Ninth (59th) Chapter. 
young lady sick with all your stories. And when the 
]\yj leidi sik wid a:l ja: sta:riz. an hwen da 
truth is told, you’re no more use to us than that dusty dusty = grey with 
tru:p iz tould, jua nou mo: ju:s tu as dan dcet dASti ^ ust 
old eagle up there on the wall. I’m sure you’ve never 
ould i:gl a p dear an da wad. aim jua ju:v neva 
been within five miles of a real crime!” 
bi:n wid 1 in faiv mailz av a rial kraim!” 
Marion couldn’t help laughing when they told her about 
mcerian kudnt help la:fir} hwen dei tould ha:r a'baut 
it. In fact, she felt better after hearing that the poor 
it. in fcekt, ji: felt betar a:fta hiariy dat da pua 
policeman had left the place with the waitress pouring 
pa'li:sman had left da pleis wid da weitris pa:riy 
truths into his burning ears. “I’m still proud of ‘us’ 
tru:dz inta hiz ba:niy iaz. (( aim stil praud av ‘as* 
English,” Storm said, when they were sitting in the 
irjglif” sta:m sed, hwen dei wa: sitiy in da 
train. “That was a brave little woman; it’s a serious 
trein. “dcet waz a breiv litl wuman; its a siarias 
matter to speak like that to the law.” “She’s quite 
mceta ta spi:k laik dcet ta da la:.” “fi:z kwait 
safe, old man,” Marshall told him laughing. “She’s 
seif, ould mcen,” ma:fal tould him la:fiy. “fi:z 
his wife!” 
hiz waif!” 
711 
Chapter Fifty-Nine (59). 
EXERCISE A. 
WORDS: 
arrange 
sick 
plain 
digestion 
tight 
dream 
dream (verb) 
dreamt 
healthy 
oil 
circle 
semi-circle 
electric 
card 
post-card 
chief 
afterwards 
argument 
waste 
curtain 
touch 
direct 
charge (verb) 
group 
art 
science 
rock 
eagle 
horn 
village 
drain 
disease 
fever 
typhoid 
712 
Marion and her friends took Storm to hear English 
university people speak about different subjects of — 
and art. —, the young people would go either to Mar¬ 
shall’s or Marion’s home and have long — about what 
they had heard, while they had their tea or sat in a 
— in front of the fire. On these nights, they would 
draw the — and put out the — light, so that the room 
was dark except for the light — by the fire-place and 
a small —. Sometimes they sat — in thought, — about 
the future. “Knowledge,” said Mr. Edwards, “is the 
— upon which young people should build their —,” but 
Mrs. Edwards thought that it Was not — for a young 
girl to take her studies so seriously that she even began 
to find eating a — of time. However, she was glad 
that Marion was discovering that the world was a place 
full of — facts. On a week-end trip into the country 
the young people stayed the night at a — about 20 miles 
from London. Marion was afraid of some cows on ac¬ 
count of their big —. 
In former times people had no — to take the dirty 
water away from the houses. Many people died of 
—, a consequence of living in dirty houses. In the East 
you may get — fever if you drink water that has not 
been boiled. Marion’s father had a friend who got — 
when he was in India. New shoes are sometimes too 
— to be comfortable to walk in. 
It is not good for your stomach and — to eat and drink 
too much. The waitress brought a bottle of — for 
Ellen’s feet. While they were having supper, the young 
The Fifty-Ninth (59th) Chapter. 
people listened to the conversation of four men who 
were playing —. They were talking of nothing but 
fights and blood and —. Marion got — while listening 
to their stories. 
EXERCISE B. 
In chapter 56, Exercise D, you found a letter from Storm 
to Wood. Please answer this letter as if you were Wood. 
In doing so you must use all the words in the following 
list in some way or other: 
marry — daughter — happy — winter — snow — ice 
— skate — break — leg — hospital — doctor — move 
— house — flat — address. 
EXERCISE C. GRAMMAR. 
A form of the verb which is used very much in Eng¬ 
lish is the first participle. It is made by adding -ing 
to the infinitive. For instance, calling (call-ing) going 
(go-ing), explaining (explain-ing). 
In writing, the following rules must be remembered 
when making the first participle. 
If the infinitive ends in an -e following a consonant, 
this -e is dropped before -ing is added. For instance, 
come — coming, love — loving, but: see — seeing. 
Verbs that end in -ie change the -ie into -y before -ing 
is added. For instance, die — dying, lie — lying. 
When the verb ends in a single consonant, we have to 
follow the rules that were given regarding the past 
malaria 
crime 
set 
consequence 
boil 
skin 
fix 
713 
Chapter Fifty-Nine (59). 
tense, that is: The consonant always remains single when 
following two vowels. For instance, explain-ing. The 
consonant remains single after an unstressed vowel, but 
is made double after a stressed vowel. For instance, 
answer-ing, prefer-ring. To this rule there is, however, 
the exception that -1 is made double even after an 
unstressed vowel. For instance, travel-ling. 
The first participle is used in several ways in English. 
It may be used as an adjective. Examples: I looked 
up into his smiling face. The mother kissed her sleep¬ 
ing child. He told me an interesting story. 
Here is another use of the first participle: He speaks 
French, he is speaking French. Both sentences are in 
the present tense. What do they mean? ‘He speaks 
French’ means that ‘he’ is able to speak French, and 
possibly does so now and then; but ‘he is speaking 
French’ means that ‘he’ is speaking French now. 
Here are some more examples with the same difference 
in meaning: He reads many books — he is reading an 
interesting book. He smokes cigarettes — he is smoking 
a cigarette. These forms of the verbs, ‘is speaking’, ‘is 
reading’, ‘is smoking’, we call expanded [iks'pcendid] 
forms, which means forms that are made longer, and 
you will see that they are made up of a form of ‘to be’ 
and the first participle. 
We may also have expanded forms in all the other 
tenses you have learned, and there is just the same 
sort of difference in meaning between the short forms 
and the expanded forms. Examples: I closed my book 
714 
The Fifty-Ninth (59th) Chapter. 
when he entered the room — I was just closing my 
book when the clock struck twelve. My brother has 
already written one book — he has been writing an¬ 
other one for ten months now. He had written half 
of his first book, before I even knew he had started — 
he had been writing all day on the new book when I 
saw him. 
Sometimes the expanded forms of verbs such as ‘go 5 
and ‘leave 5 express the future. Examples: I am going 
to town to-morrow = I shall go to town to-morrow. I 
am leaving Paris next month = I shall leave Paris 
next month. 
The first participle is used after many verbs, such as 
come, go, sit, lie, see, hear, etc. Examples: He came 
running towards us. She went singing through the 
house. I saw him turning round the corner of the 
street. 
In many cases the first participle is used instead of 
some part of the sentence with the verb in the present 
tense or the past tense. Examples: So saying he closed 
his book = he said so and closed his book. Having 
finished his dinner, he usually smokes a cigar = when 
he has finished his dinner, he usually smokes a cigar. 
Questions: 
How is the first participle made? ... Write the first 
participle form of ‘to die 5 . ... Write the first participle 
form of ‘to stop 5 . ... What are the expanded forms of 
the verbs in the following sentences: He ate an apple. 
We play football? ... 
715 
