Chapter Six (6). 
The Sixth (6th) Chapter. 
branch 
tall = high 
tall 
high 
Big persons are 
tall. 
Big houses are 
high. 
THE GARDEN 
Mr. Smith’s house is in a garden. In the garden there 
mist9 smips haus iz in d ga:dn. in dd ga:dn dear 
are many trees. There are big trees and there are 
a: meni tri:z. dear a: big tri:z and dear a: 
small trees in the garden. The big trees are tall. The 
smod tri:z in da ga:dn. da big tri:z a: tod. da 
small trees are low. Where is Mr. Smith’s house? It is 
smod tri:z a: lou. hwear iz mista smips hausf it iz 
in a garden. Are there only tall trees in the garden? 
in a ga:dn. a: dea ounli tod tri:z in da ga:dn? 
No, there are also low trees. Is Mr. Smith’s house a 
non, dear a: odsou lou tri:z. iz mista smips haus a 
high house? No, it is not high; it is only low, but it 
hai hausf nou, it iz not hai; it iz ounli lou, bAt it 
is higher than the low trees. The tall trees are higher 
iz haia dean da lou tri:z. da tod tri':z a: haia 
than the house. Are all the trees in the garden tall? 
dean da haus. a: od da tri:z in da ga:dn to:lf 
No, some of the trees are tall, and some of the trees 
nou, Sadi av da tri:z a: tod, and SAm av da tri:z 
are low. Are all persons big? No, some persons are 
a: lou. a: od pa:snz bigf nou, saw pa:snz a: 
big, and some persons are small. Mr. Smith is tall, 
big, and sadi pa:snz a: smod. mista snmp iz tod, 
The Sixth (6th) Chapter. 
but Mrs. Smith is not so tall. She is taller than John 
b\t misiz smip iz not sou toil . fi: iz toila dan dyn 
and Helen. Are all persons tall? No, some persons 
and helin. a: oil paisnz toil? non, sAin paisnz 
are tall, and some persons are short. 
a: toil, and saih paisnz a: foit. 
A tree is a plant; a flower is a plant. Trees are tall 
a tri: iz a pla:nt; a flaua iz a plaint. tri:z a: tail 
plants. A bush is also a plant. Flowers and grass are 
plaints, a buj iz oilsou a plaint, flauaz and grais ai 
low plants. Are trees the only plants in the garden? 
lou plaints. ai triiz di ounli plaints in da gaidn? 
No, there are also other plants in the garden. Is Helen 
nou, dear a: oilsou Ada plaints in da gaidn. iz helin 
the only girl in the family? No, there is also another 
di ounli gail in da fcemili? nou, dear iz oilsou a'nAda 
girl in the family; the baby is the other girl in the 
gail in da fcemili; da beibi iz di Ada gail in da 
family. There is only one son in the family; John is 
fcemili. dear iz ounli WAn SAn in da fcemili; dyn iz 
the only son in the family. 
di ounli SAn in da fcemili. 
Which of the plants in the garden are the biggest? The 
hwitf av da plaints in da gaidn ai da bigistf da 
trees are the biggest plants. What are the other plants 
triiz a: da bigist plaints. hwot ai di Ada plaints 
low 
short 
Small trees and 
small houses are 
low. 
Small persons are 
short. 
in the garden? The other plants are the flowers, the 
in da gaidn? di Ada plaints ai da flauaz, da 
bush 
bushes, and the grass. The trees and the flowers have 
bufiz, and da gra:s. da tri:z and da flauaz hcev 
grass 
leaves. The colour of a leaf is green. Are the bushes 
liivz. da k\la av a liif iz gri:n. a: da bufiz 
tall plants? No, the bushes are low plants; they have 
tail plaintsf nou, da bufiz a: lou plaints; dei hcev 
branches and leaves. Have flowers branches? No, 
brainfiz and liivz. hcev flauaz bramfiz? nou, 
one branch 
two branches 
flowers have no branches, but they have leaves. Have 
flauaz hcev nou brainfiz, b\t dei hcev liivz. hcev 
trees branches? Yes, trees have branches as well as 
triiz brainfizt jes, triiz hcev brainfiz cez wel cez 
one bush 
two bushes 
leaves. What is the colour of grass? The colour of 
liivz. hwjt iz da kAla av graisf da kAla av 
grass is green. Have the trees and the bushes leaves? 
grais iz grim. hcev da triiz and da bufiz liivz? 
one leaf 
two leaves 
Yes, both the trees and the bushes have leaves. 
jes, boup da triiz and da bufiz hcev liivz. 
What is the colour of a leaf? The colour of a leaf is 
hwot iz da kAla av a liif? da kAla av a liif iz 
green. Are there flowers only in the garden? No, 
grim. a: dea flauaz ounli in da gaidn? nou, 
Mrs. Smith has some flowers in the house; there are 
misiz smip hcez sath flauaz in da haus; dear a: 
(iff 
flowers both in the garden and in the house. There 
flauaz boup in da gaidn and in da haus. dear 
leaf 
are flowers in the house as well as in the garden. Are 
a; flauaz in da haus cez wel cez in da gaidn. ai 
The Sixth (6th) Chapter. 
both Helen and Alice girls? Yes, both Helen and Alice 
boup helin and cells gailzf jes, boup helin and cells 
are girls. John and Helen as well as the baby are 
a: gailz. dpn and helin cez wel cez da beibi a: 
children. Have the girls short hair? Yes, both of the 
tfildran. hcev da gailz jo it he a? jes, boup av da 
girls have short hair. Both Helen and the baby have 
ga:lz hcev fait hea. boup helin and da beibi hcev 
short hair. 
fait hea. 
Some trees in the garden have fruit. 
saw, tri:z in da gaidn hcev fruit. 
An apple is a fruit. 
an cepl iz a fru:t. 
What is a pear? 
hzvat iz a peaf 
A pear is a fruit. 
a pea iz a fruit. 
A pear is a fruit. 
a pea iz a fruit. 
Are there other fruits? Yes, the apple is another fruit. 
ai dea Ada fruitst jes, di cepl iz a'n\da fruit. 
The year has four seasons. Summer is a season, winter 
da jia hcez fai siiznz. s\ma iz a siizn, winta 
is a season, spring is a season, and autumn is a season. 
iz a siizn, sprirj iz a siizn, and aitam iz a siizn. 
The summer-months are June, July, and August. The 
da sAmamAnps ai dgum, d^uHai, and aigast. di 
autumn-months are September, October, and November. 
aitammAnps ai sap'temba, ak'touba, and nou'vemba. 
The winter-months are December, January, and Fe- 
da wintamAnps a: di'semba, d^cenjuari, and fe- 
bruary. The spring-months are March, April, and May. 
bruari. da spriymAnps ai maitf, eipril, and mei. 
both - and 
as well as 
Both Helen and 
the baby are girls. 
Helen and John as 
well as the baby 
are children. 
both of 
Both of the girls 
are young. 
apple 
are in blossom = 
have flowers 
when? 
when 
When is spring? 
Spring is when 
the fruit trees are 
in blossom. 
How many seasons has a year? A year has four seasons. 
hau meni siiznz hcez a jiaf a jia hcez fai si:znz. 
What are the four seasons? The four seasons are spring, 
hwat a: da fa: si:znzf da fa: siiznz a: sprit), 
summer, autumn, and winter. How long is a season? 
SAina, a:tam, and winta. hau lay iz a si:zn? 
A season is three months. When is summer? Summer 
a siizn iz pri: mxnps. hwen iz SAinaf SAma 
is the months of June, July, and August. When is 
iz da mAtips av d$u:n, d^u'lai, and a:gast . hwen iz 
winter? Winter is the months of December, January, 
winta ? winta iz da niAnps av di'semba, d^cenjuari, 
and February. In spring the fruit trees are in blossom; 
and februari. in spriy da fru:t triiz a: in blasam; 
the fruit trees are in blossom when it is spring. 
da fru:t tri:z a: in blasam hwen it iz spriy. 
The trees have no leaves when it is winter. In summer 
da tri:z hcev nou li:vz hwen it iz winta. in SAina 
and autumn the trees have fruit. When are the fruit 
and a:tam da tri:z hcev fru:t. hwen a: da fru:t 
trees in blossom? The fruit trees are in blossom in 
tri:z in blasamf da fru:t tri:z a: in blasam in 
spring. When have the trees fruit? The trees have 
spriy. hwen hcev da tri:z fruitf da triiz hcev 
fruit in summer and in autumn. Have the bushes also 
fruit in SAina and in aitarn. hcev da bufiz ailsou 
fruit? Yes, some of the bushes have fruit. The fruits 
fruit? jes, saw av da bufiz hcev fruit. da fruits 
The Sixth (6th) Chapter. 
of the bushes are berries. What is a berry? A berry 
av da bufiz a: beriz. hwat iz a berif a beri 
is the small fruit of a bush. 
iz da sma:l fru:t av a buj. 
In winter it is cold. On some days in winter there is 
in winta it iz kould. an sAtn deiz in winta dear iz 
snow. The colour of snow is white. Is it warm in 
snou. da kAla av snou iz hwait. iz it wa:m in 
winter? No, it is cold in winter, but in summer it is 
winta? nou, it iz kould in winta, bAt in SAtna it iz 
warm. What is the colour of snow? The colour of 
iva:m. hwat iz da kAla av snou? da kAla av 
snow is white. Is snow cold or warm? Snow is cold. 
snou iz hwait. iz snou kould a: wa:m? snou iz kould. 
Is there snow in summer? No, in summer it is warm, 
iz dea snou in sxma? nou, in SAma it iz wa:m, 
and there is no snow. 
and dear iz nou snou. 
EXERCISE A. 
one day 
two days 
one berry 
two berries 
berries 
WORDS: 
garden 
tree 
flower 
bush 
grass 
plant 
leaf 
branch 
pear 
apple 
berry 
fruit 
white 
green 
colour 
summer 
winter 
spring 
autumn 
season 
snow 
blossom 
cold 
warm 
tall 
high 
low 
other 
an 
another 
some 
both 
well 
when? 
when 
family. 
Mrs. Smith has some flowers in the house, and she has 
The Sixth (6th) Chapter. 
EXERCISE B. 
