Chapter Sixty (60). 
The Sixtieth (60th) Chapter. 
What is on your 
mind? = what are 
you thinking of? 
A ‘HAPPY END’ 
“What’s on your mind, mother?” Marion asked her 
“hwots on jo: maind, niAda?” marian a:skt ho: 
mother. “You have been looking for some time as 
mAdo. “ju: hov bi:n lukiy fa s\m taim az 
if you wanted to say something.” It was just after 
if ju: wontid ta sei SAmpiy 33 it waz d$Ast a:fta 
lunch on a quiet Sunday afternoon shortly after New 
IahJ on a kwaiat SAndi a:fta'nu:n fo:tli a:fta nju: 
Year’s Day, and the Edwardses and Storm were 
jiaz dei, and di edwadziz and sto:m wa: 
gathered in front of the fire. “You see,” Mrs. Edwards 
gcedad in frAnt av da faia. “ju: si:/ 3 misiz edwadz 
replied, “Mildred rang up this morning and asked if 
ri'plaid, “mildrid ray a p dis mo.niy and a:skt if 
we couldn’t take Elizabeth off her hands this afternoon. 
wi: kudnt teik i'lizabap o:f ha: handz dis a:fta'nu:n. 
Elizabeth is my sister’s twelve-year-old daughter,” she 
i'lizabap iz mai sistaz twelvjiarould do:ta/ 3 ji: 
explained to Storm. “Father wasn’t here when she 
iks'pleind ta sto:m. “fa: da woznt hia hwen fi: 
rang up, and I didn’t know whether he had any plans 
rcey Ap, and ai didnt nou hweda hi: had eni planz 
for this afternoon, so I promised to tell her after lunch.” 
fa dis a:fta'nu:n, sou ai promist ta tel ha:r a:fta /aw/.” 
716 
The Sixtieth (60th) Chapter. 
“Well, have you made up your mind about it?” Marion 
“wel, hov ju: meid a p jo: maind o'baut it?” mccrion 
make up one’s 
mind = come to a 
decision 
asked. “No, I haven’t. I really ought to let her come, 
a:skt. “nou, ai hcevnt. ai ridli o:t to let ho: k\m, 
I suppose, since we have nothing else on. But Fm 
ai so'pouz, sins wi: hdv n\piy els on. hot aim 
feeling somewhat tired and was looking forward to 
fi:litj SAmhwot taidd on woz lukitj fo:vudd tu 
somewhat = 
a little 
a nice, peaceful Sunday.” She pointed to the small 
d nais, pi:sful SAndi.” Ji: point id ta da snu:l 
peaceful — full of 
peace 
table beside her chair. “You see, I had already gathered 
tcibl hi'said ho: tjeo. “ju: siai hod o:Vredi gcedod 
together on the table the papers and books that I 
to'gedor on do teibl do peipoz on buks dot ai 
needle and 
hcS 
haven’t had time to read till now, — and needles and 
hcevnt hdd taim to ri:d til nan, — on ni:dlz on 
X 
thread and my scissors for a bit of sewing. But with 
pred on mai sizoz for o bit ov souirj. bot wid 
thread 
a child of twelve in the house there will be no peace 
o tfaild ov twelv in do haus deo wil hi: nou pi:s 
for doing all that. 
fo du:iy o:l dcct. 
°6 
“When she was younger, I could give her a pair of 
“hzven ji: woz j^ygo, ai kod giv ho:r o peor ov 
scissors 
scissors and let her cut paper dolls. But she’s too old 
sizoz on let ho: k\t peipo dolz. bot ji:z tu: ould 
for that now, and she’s no good with a needle and 
fo dcet nau , on fi:z non gud wid o ni:dl 
717 
Chapter Sixty (60). 
dangerous = 
of danger 
beast — wild 
animal 
thread, so I dare not let her help me. I can’t make up 
pred, sou ai deo not let ho: help mi:, ai ka:nt meik a p 
my mind what to say to Mildred. If I say ‘No’, Mildred 
mai maind hzvot to sei to mildrid. if ai sei c nou 9 , mildrid 
will have to change her plans; if I say ‘Yes’, I’ll get no 
wil hcev to tfeind 3 ho: plcenz; if ai sei c jes y , ail get nou 
rest to-day.” “Marion and I might take her some- 
rest to'del” “mcerion ond ai mait teik ho: s\m- 
where,” Storm suggested, “to the Zoo, for instance.” 
hzveo” storm so'dystid, “to do zu:, for instons.” 
“That certainly would be nice for us, if you think you 
“dcet so:tnli zvod hi: nais for as, if jit: piyk ju: 
can stand it. I’ll ring up Mildred, then, and tell her.” 
kon stcend it. ail riy \p mildrid , den , on tel ho:.” 
full 
“You would think we were talking about a dangerous 
“ju: zvod piyk zvi: zvo: to:kiy o'baut 0 deind^ros 
animal and not a girl of twelve, to hear your mother 
cenimol on not 0 go:l ov tzvclv, to hio jo: m\do 
speak,” he said to Marion. “She’s almost as dangerous 
spi:k” hi: sed to mcerion. “fi:z o.lmoust oz deind^ros 
to have about as a wild beast,” Marion answered. “She 
to hcev o'baut oz o zvaild bi:st” mcerion a:nsod. “fi: 
says and does whatever comes into her mind without 
sez on dAZ hzvot'evo kAinz into ho: maind zvid'aut 
thinking first, and she doesn’t walk like normal human 
piykiy fo:st, on fi: dAznt zvo:k laik no:mol hju:mon 
beings, but moves about by jumping like a monkey. 
bi:iyz, bot mir.Z'Z o'baut bai d^Ainpiy laik 0 niAyki. 
718 
The Sixtieth (60th) Chapter. 
The last time she was here, she tore a big hole in a 
da la:st taim ji: waz hid, fi: ta:r a big houl in a 
curtain and broke a very fine dish — a gift to my 
ka.tn an brouk a veri fain dij — a gift ta mai 
mother from her uncle in India.” 
m\da fram ha:r \rjkl in indja” 
“The Zoo seems to be the right place for her, then,” 
“da zu: si:mz ta bi: da rait pleis fa: ha:, den ” 
Storm laughed. “I can almost guess what she’s like. 
sta:m la:ft. “ai kan a.lmoust ges hwat ji:z laik. 
My own sister was the same at that age; one of her 
mai oun sista waz da seim at dcet eid 3 ; w\n av ha: 
greatest delights was to sit on a branch above the 
greitist di'laits waz ta sit an a bra:nf a'bAV da 
garden gate and throw things at me when I came home 
ga:dn geit an prou pitjz cet mi: hwen ai keim houm 
from work. Once she threw a paper-bag full of flour 
fram wa:k. WAns fi: pru: a peipabceg ful av flaua 
down on me. She didn’t do that again, though.” 
dann an mi:, fi: didnt du: dcet a'gein, dou ” 
“I can guess what you did to her. And I can fancy 
“ai kan ges hivat ju: did tu ha:. and ai kan fcensi 
what you must have looked like,” Marion said, and 
hwat ju: mAst hav lukt laik” mcerian sed, and 
smiled at the thought. “The little beast wouldn’t 
smaild at da pa:t. “da litl bi:st wudnt 
come down, of course,” Storm went on, “when she 
kAin daun, av ka:s” sta:m went an, “hwen fi: 
He tears, he tore, 
he has torn 
\teaz, ta:, ta:n]. 
gift = present 
delight = great 
pleasure 
719 
Chapter Sixty (60). 
saw how angry I was, so I had to go up myself and 
so: hau ceygri ai woz, sou ai heed ta gou Ap mai'self an 
fetch = get 
fetch her down. It was a delight to seize her by 
fetj ha: daun. it was a di'lait ta si:z ha: bai 
the neck and pull her down, I can tell you. If my 
da nek an pul ha: daun, ai kan tel juif mai 
mother hadn’t come out in time to save her, it’s quite 
m\da hcednt k\m out in taim ta seiv ha:, its kwait 
probable that I should have given her a good beating. 
probabl dat ai fad hav givn ha:r a gud bi:tiy. 
As it was, she was quick to seize the chance of getting 
az it woz, fi: waz kwik ta si:z da tja:ns av getiy 
away from me.” 
a'wei fram mi:” 
“Would you really beat a woman?” Marion interrupted. 
“wad ju: riali bi:t a wunianf” meerian inta'rAptid. 
“Woman!” Storm cried. “Didn’t you tell me yourself 
“ wuman!” storm kraid. ({ didnt ju: tel mi: jo:'self 
a moment ago that girls at that age can hardly be 
o moumant a'gou dat ga:lz at deet eid$ kan ha:dli bi: 
regarded as human beings, but are much more like 
ri'ga:did az hju:man bi:iyz, bat a: mAtf mo: laik 
wild animals?” “All right, all right — it was only 
waild cenimalz?” “o:l rait, o:l rait — it waz ounli 
in fun.” 
in fAn” 
“I’ve always wondered what my mother said to my 
“aiv o:lzvaz zvxndad hzvot mai niAda sed ta mai 
720 
The Sixtieth (60th) Chapter. 
sister that day to break the proud fighting spirit of 
sistd dcet dei ta breik da praud faith] spirit av 
the little savage,” Storm said, as they were on their 
da litl scevid^” sta:m sed, az dei zoa:r an dea 
way to Marion’s aunt. “For next day she brought 
wei ta mcerianz a: fit. “fa nekst dei ji: bro:t 
me gifts as a sign that peace had been established 
mi: gifts az a sain dat pi:s had bi:n is'tceblift 
once more and that the spirit of sisterly love was 
zvahs mo: an dat da spirit av sistali L\v waz 
going to govern all her acts from that time on — a 
gouhj ta gxvan o:l ha:r cekts fram dcet taim on — a 
cigar and a green-and-red tie.” “She probably made 
si'ga:r and a 1 gri:nan'red tai” “fi: probabli nieid 
her see that even brothers are a sort of human 
ha: si: dat i:van br\daz a:r a so:t av Jiju:man 
beings,” Marion replied. At the house of Marion’s 
bi:iyz” mcerian ri'plaid. at da haus av mcerianz 
aunt they found Elizabeth jumping about with joy 
a:nt dei faund i'lizabap dympiy a'baut void dyi 
joy = delight 
at the thought of going to the Zoo with Storm and 
at da po:t av gouirj ta da zu: void sto:rn and 
Marion. “It’s no secret,” Marion’s aunt told her, “that 
mcerian. “its non si:krit” mcerianz o:nt tould ha:, “dat 
Elizabeth gets no more fun out of her visits to your 
i'lizabap gets non mo: f\n out av ha: vizits ta jo: 
parents’ house than your mother does, so you can 
pearants haus dan jo: m\do d.\z, sou jit: ban 
721 
Chapter Sixty (60). 
fancy her joy when she heard where she’s going. It’s 
fcensi ha: dyi hwen Ji: ha:d hwea fi:z gouiy. its 
not far from tears to smiles at that age. — Please 
not fa: from tidz ta smailz at dcet eid$. — pli:z 
fetch Elizabeth’s woollen cap with the feather,” she said 
fetf i'lizabaps wulin keep wid da fed a/ 3 ji: sed 
to a servant who had just entered the room. 
tn a sa:vant hu: had dyst entad da ru:m. 
“I want to show you, Marion, the cap she has been 
“ai wont ta jou ju:, mcerian, da keep fi: haz bi:n 
sewing at school this winter. I really think she’s be- 
souiy at sku:l dis winta. ai riali piyk fi:z bi- 
coming somewhat better at needlework now. I didn’t 
'kAiniy SAinhwot betar at ni:dlwa:k nau. ai didnt 
know she was making it — she had kept it a great 
non fi: waz meikiy it — fi: had kept it a greit 
secret.” 
si'.krit” 
“Here it is — nice, isn’t it?” she asked when the maid 
“hiar it iz — nais, iznt it?” fi: a:skt hwen da meid 
had brought it. “She has made all of it herself, except 
had bro:t it. “fi: haz meid o:l av it ha f self, ik'sept 
the feather, which she pulled from the tail of our 
da feda, hwitf fi: puld fram da ieil av aua 
neighbour’s Christmas turkey — to my husband’s great 
neibaz krisnias ta:ki — ta mai hAzbandz greit 
delight. He doesn’t like our neighbour,” she explained, 
di'lait. hi: dAznt laik aua neiba” fi: iks'pleind f 
feather 
servants = men or 
women working in 
their master's 
house 
722 
The Sixtieth (60th) Chapter. 
while Elizabeth was putting on the cap. “Well, have 
hzvail i'lizabap zuaz putiy on da keep, u wel, heev 
a good time! We shan’t expect you back till half past 
a gud taim! zt'i: ja:nt iks'pekt ju: beck til ha:f pa:st 
five. I’m certainly glad you’re taking her. You see, 
faiv. aim sa:tnli glced jua teikiy ha:. ju: si:, 
both our servants have the afternoon off to-day, and 
boup aua sa.vants hav di 1 a:fta'nu:n a:f ta'dci, an 
we wanted to visit some people where we couldn’t 
zvi: want-id- ta visit sam pi:pl hwea zvi: kudnt 
very well take Elizabeth. Be good, now, Elizabeth!” 
veri wel teik i'lizabap. bi: gud, nan, i'lizabap /” 
“I will, mamma — good-bye!” 
i: ai zvil, ma'ma: — 'gud'bail” 
At the Zoo, most of the animals were not in the open 
at da zu:, inoust av di animals wa: not in di oupan 
air, but had gone inside, as it was rather cold. They 
ra, bat had gan in'said, as it was ra:da kould. dci 
entered one of the buildings, and as they stopped in 
entad w\n av da bildiyz, and az dci stapt in 
front of a very large lion, Storm threw out his arm 
fr.vnt av a veri la:d 3 laian, sta:rn pm: out his a:m 
towards it, bowed low, and said to the two girls, “His 
ta'wa:dz it, baud lou, and sed ta da tu: ga:lz, "his 
Majesty the Lion, King of All Animals.” 
niccd^isti da laian, kiy av a:l animals 
Elizabeth laughed with delight at this idea, but Marion 
i'lizabap la:ft zvid di'lait at dis ai'dia, hat nucrian 
to be in the open 
air = not to be in 
a building of any 
kind 
723 
Chapter Sixty (60). 
said, “His Majesty doesn’t look as if he’s enjoying life 
sed. “hiz mcedysti dAznt luk dz if hi:z in'd^any laif 
very much. In fact, he looks so sad to be locked up 
veri mAtf. in fcekt, hi: Inks sou seed td bi: hkt Ap 
claws 
in here that I almost fancy I can see tears in his 
in hi3 dat ai o:lmoust feensi ai kdn si: tiaz in hiz 
eyes.” “Why, animals can’t cry, can they?” Elizabeth 
aiz. 33 “hwai, cenimalz ka:nt krai, keen deif 33 i'lizabap 
asked Storm. “No, of course not,” he answered seriously. 
a:skt sto:m. “nou, av ko:s not,” hi: a:nsad siariasli. 
“His Majesty has a cold, so his eyes and his nose are 
“hiz meedysti haz a kould, sou hiz aiz an hiz nouz a: 
running, I think.” “Oh, you’re just making fun of 
rAnifj, ai pirjk . 33 “ ou , jua d$Ast meikiy f.\n av 
me,” the child cried. 
mi:l 3 da tfaild kraid. 
“Look at the sharp claws he has,” Marion said. “He 
“luk at da ja:p kh:z hi: heez,” mcerian sed. “hi: 
could tear a man to pieces in no time with those claws.” 
kad tear a mcen ta pi:siz in nou taim wid douz kh:z” 
“You’ll be able to watch him use his claws and his 
“ju:l bi: eibl ta wotj him ju:z hiz kh:z an hiz 
teeth as well,” Storm told her and pointed to a man 
ti:p az well 3 sta:m tould ha: and paintid tu a mcen 
who had entered the house, carrying a big basket of 
hu: had entad da haus, kceriiy a big ba:skit av 
food for the animals. 
fu:d fa di cenimalz. 
724 
The Sixtieth (60th) Chapter. 
Their lion got a large bone with lots of meat on it 
dea laidn got a la:d$ boun wid lots av mi:t on it 
and at once seized it with his claws and began to 
and at wxns si: 2 d it wid hiz kh:z and bi'gcen ta 
tear the meat from the bone with his teeth. In five 
tea da mi:t fram da boun wid hiz ti:p. in faiv 
minutes he had finished it — meat, bone, and all. 
minits hi: had finijt it — mi:t, boun, and o:l. 
Then the big beast rolled peacefully over on one side 
den da big bi:st rould pi:sfuli ouvar on w\n said 
and lay looking out at the four human beings who 
and lei lukiy aut at da fo: hju:man bi:iijz hu: 
were watching him. “Don’t you think he misses the 
wa: wotfiy him. <c dount ju: piyk hi: misiz da 
company of the other beasts in the forests of Africa 
k.unpani av di \da bi:sts in da forists av cefrika 
— or wherever it is he comes from?” Marion asked 
— 0 : hwsar'evar it iz hi: kxmz from? 33 mccrian a:skt 
the man. “Not he! He wouldn’t know what to do with 
da nuen. <: not hi:! hi: wudnt nou hwot ta du: wid 
himself if he was sent to Africa. He’s too used to 
him'self if hi: waz sent tu cefrika. hi:z tu: ju:st ta 
getting his meals every day without having to hunt, 
getiy hiz mi:lz evri dei wid'aut hceviy ta hxnt, 
and he loves to be with human beings. He’s never so 
an hi: Lwz ta bi: wid hju:man bi:iyz. ht:s neva sou 
happy as when the Zoo is full of people for him to 
hcepi az hwen da zu: iz ful m pi.pl f d um 
725 
Chapter Sixty (60). 
look at. When nobody is here, I have to go in and 
luk at. hwen noubddi iz hid, ai hav td gou in dn 
talk to him sometimes, to keep him happy! No, it isn’t 
to:k id him SAmtaimz, td ki:p him ha pi! nou, it iznt 
probable that he was ever outside Europe; I think he 
prjbdbl ddt hi: wdz evdr autsaid judrdp: ai piyk hi: 
was born in Berlin!” 
wdz bo:n in bd:'lin!” 
The next place they entered was the monkey-house. 
dd nekst pleis dei entdd wdz dd mAtjkihaus. 
Elizabeth had brought a bag of nuts and oranges for 
i'lizdbdp hdd brd'.t d bag dv n\ts dnd orind^iz fa: 
them, and one by one she rolled or threw the fruit and 
ddm, dnd w\n bai w.\n fi: rould a: pm: dd fru:t dnd 
nuts in to them. “Try and make them come up to 
n.xts in tu ddm. “trai dn meik ddm k.\m a p td 
the fence and fetch the nuts themselves,” Marion said. 
dd fens dn fetj dd n\ts ddm'selvz,” maridn sed. 
“But be careful that they don’t bite your fingers; you 
“bdt bi: ke.dfnl ddt dei donnt bait ja: fitjgdz; ju: 
had better put the nuts on the floor just outside the 
hdd bctd put dd n\ts in dd fid: d$Ast out 1 said dd 
fence.” 
fens.” 
“There’s a big one coming up now; let him have an 
i( ddz d big ivau kAiniy Ap nan; let him hav dn 
orange!” Storm said, pointing to a large monkey with 
drind 3 /” std:m sed, pdintiy tu d la:d$ mAyki wid 
726 
The Sixtieth ( 60 th) Chapter. 
a wise expression on his face. “He looks almost 
a waiz iks'prefdti on hiz feis. “hi: luks e.lmoust 
human.” “Yes, he looks just like a teacher we have 
hju:men” “jes, hi: luks d$ASt laik a ti:tfd ivi: hczv 
at school,” Elizabeth cried, “Mr. Ambrose Smalljoy. 
dt sku:l” i'lizebep kraid, “mister cembrouz smo.ldyi. 
Oh, what fun! I know what I’m going to do to-morrow; 
ou, hwat f ah ! ai nou hwat aim gouiy td du: ta'marou; 
I’m going to make a picture of ‘Ambrose’ on the wall 
aim gouitj td meik a piktjar av € cembrouz y an da wa:l 
at school and write: ‘Ambrose — The Almost Human’ 
at sku:l an rait: ‘cembrouz — di e:lmoust hju:men y 
under it. Won’t he be angry!” 
aider it. wount hi: bi: czygri!” 
Storm had to laugh at this, but Marion stopped him 
storm heed te la:f at dis , bat mcerian stapt him 
with a look. “What an idea!” she said to Elizabeth. 
wid a Ink. “hwat an ai'die!” ji: sed tu i'lizabep. 
“I don’t think he’ll be angry, but only sad.” “You 
“a/ dount piyk hi:l bi: ceygri, bat ounli seed” “ju: 
don’t know Ambrose,” that kind-hearted child replied. 
dount nou cembrouz” dcct kaindha:tid tfaild n plaid. 
“He loves a good fight as well as anybody. 
“hi: Iavz a gud fait oz wel az enibadi. 
“What is that monkey over there doing to the other 
“hwat iz deet m.xyki ouva dee du:iy ta di Ada 
one’s head?” she continued, watching a monkey who 
w.utz hed?” ji: kan'tinjir.d, witjiij a mMjki hu: 
727 
Chapter Sixty (60). 
worn 
had put its head on another one’s knees. “It’s hunting 
had put its hed an a'nAda wauz ni:z. “its hAntirj 
for insects in its hair,” Storm replied. “They’re learning 
far insekts in its hea” sto:m ri'plaid. “dea la:niy 
one of the rules of living with others: Help your 
WAn av da ru:lz av livitj mid Adaz: help fa: 
neighbour! If we all did that always, it would be much 
neiba! if mi: a:l did dcet a:lmaz, it wad bi: mAtj 
nicer to live and work. We could learn a thing or two 
naisa ta tiv an wa:k. mi: kad la:n a pitj a tu: 
from some of the insects, the bees, for example, who 
fram sahi av di insekts, da bi:z, far ig'za:mpl, hu: 
all work from morning till night for the benefit of all.” 
d: 1 wa:k fram ma:niy til nait fa da benifit av a:l” 
“I don’t think she’s heard a word of what you’ve been 
“ai dount piyk fi:z he:d a wa:d av hwat ju:v bi:n 
saying,” Marion smiled, when he finished. 
seiiy” mcerian smaild, hwen hi: f ini ft. 
For Elizabeth had been busy feeding the monkeys from 
far i'lizabap had bi:n bizi fi:diy da mAykiz fram 
her bag. “They’ll eat almost anything, won’t they?” 
Jia: bceg. “deil i:t a.lmoust enipiy, mount dei?” 
she asked, turning away from the fence at last. “Nuts 
ji: a:skt, ta:niy a'wei fram da fens at la:st. “nAts 
and oranges and apples and bread, and what they find 
and arindyz and ceplz an bred , an hmat dei faind 
in each other’s hair, and worms —” “Worms?” Marion 
in i. tf Adaz hea, an wa:mz —” “ma:mz? }) mcerian 
728 
The Sixtieth (60th) Chapter. 
cried. “Yes, I tried giving them some worms I had 
kraid. “jes, ai traid givirj dBm sam wa:ms ai had 
brought along in the bag for the birds, and they seemed 
bra:t a'lay in da bceg fa da ba:dz, an dei si:md 
to like them, so I let them have them all,” the child 
ta laik dam, sou ai let dam hcev dam a:l, 33 da tjaild 
answered. “Do you mean to tell me,” Marion asked, 
a:nsad. “du: ju: mi:n ta tel mi:/ 3 mcerian a:skt, 
“that I have been carrying a bag full of worms around 
“dat ai hav bi:n kceriirj a bceg ful av warms a'round- 
for more than an hour? Let’s get out into the fresh air 
fa ma: dan an auaf lets get aut inta da fref ea 
— the thought of it makes me sick!” 
— da pa:t av it meiks mi: sik! 33 
As soon as they got outside, however, Marion felt 
as su:n as dei gat aut'said, hau'eva, mcerian felt 
somewhat better, and as Elizabeth seemed to have 
SAmhwat beta , and as i'lisabap si:md ta hav 
decided not to give them any more shocks, the rest 
di'saidid nat ta giv dam eni ma: faks, da rest 
of the afternoon passed quite peacefully. When they 
av di a:fta'nu:n pa:st kwait pi:sfuli. hwen dei 
had taken Elizabeth home, Storm was in- a great hurry 
had teikn i'lisabap houm, sta:m was in a greit h\ri 
to get back to Marion’s house. “Why all this hurry?” 
ta get bcek ta mcerians haus. {( hwai a:l dis h\ri?” 
Marion asked in some surprise. “We’re going some- 
incerian a:skt in SAin sa'prais. (C wia gouirj saiii 
729 
Chapter Sixty (60). 
where together with your parents, and we have to be 
hwea ta'geda wid jo: peardnts, dn wi: lieev ta bi: 
there at seven o’clock,” he replied, “so there isn’t much 
dear at sevn a'klak” hi: ri plaid, “sou dar iznt m\tj 
time left.” “Where are we going? Tell me about it.” 
taim left” “hwear a: wi: gouiy? tel mi: a'baut it” 
“No, it’s a secret. You’ll see when we get there.” 
“non, its a si:krit. ju:l si: hwen wi: get dea” 
After a quick cup of tea, the four of them left the house, 
a:ftar a kwik k\p av ti:, da fa:r av dam left da halts, 
Marion wondering what her father was up to. Mr. 
mcerian wxndariy hwat ha: fa:da waz a p tu. mistar 
Edwards took them to a quiet street of small houses 
edzvads tuk dam tu a kwaiat stri:t av smo:l hauziz 
surrounded by gardens. He walked up to one of them 
sa'raundid bai ga:dnz. hi: wo:kt a p ta w\n av dam 
and rang the bell, while Mrs. Edwards explained, “This 
and very da bel, hwail misiz edwadz iks'pleind, “dis 
is the house where your father and I lived when we were 
iz da hems hwea ja: fa:dar and ai livd hwen wi: wa: 
first married. We saw in the paper the day before yester- 
fa:st mcerid. wi: sj: in da peipa da dei bi'fa: jesta- 
day that the people who live here are going to move. 
di dat da pi:pl hu: liv hia a: gouiy ta mu:v. 
The house will be empty from March 1st. So we 
da liaus zvil bi: cinti fram ma:tf da fa:st. sou wi: 
decided to ask about the price, and if it wasn’t too 
di'saidid tu a:sk a x baut da prais , and if it waznt tu: 
730 
The Sixtieth (60th) Chapter. 
dear now, to take you along and show it to you.” 
did nau, td teik ju: e'loy dn fou it tu ju:.” 
“Too dear?” Marion asked. “Do you mean for us?” 
“tu: did?” mcerien a:skt. “du: ju: mi:n fdr as?” 
She turned to Storm: “And you haven’t told me any- 
fi: te:nd td storm: “dn ju: hcevnt tould mi: cni- 
thing! Does that mean that —?” “It means that we 
pig! d\s dcet mi:n ddt —?” “it mi:ns dot wi: 
can afford to marry now as soon as you can make up 
kdn e'fo.d td mceri nau dz su:n oz ju: kdn meik a p 
your mind about the date. I got a rise this month, 
jo: niaind e'baut do deit. ai got o raiz dis mAnp, 
and I went out at once and spent it on the ring for 
and ai went aut ot w\ns on spent it on do rig fo: 
you — just to be on the safe side! — I mean if you 
ju: — d^Ast to hi: on do seif said! — ai mi:n if ju: 
should decide that you wanted to be married to-morrow, 
fed di'said dot ju: wontid to bi: mcerid to'morou, 
there would hardly be any time at the last minute 
dee wed ha:dli bi: eni taim et do la:st minit 
for buying a ring. But now I’m prepared for the worst!” 
fd baiig e rig. bet nau aim pri'peed fe do we:st!” 
Marion laughed at this. “May I see the ring now?” 
nicer ion la: ft ot dis. “mei ai si: do rig nau?” 
she asked. “And try it on?” At this moment, however, 
//: a:skt. “on trai it on?” ot dis moumont, hau'evd, 
the door was opened by a friendly young man. My 
da do: wez oupend bai o frendli j\g man. 
731 
Chapter Sixty (60). 
He lights, he lit, he 
has lit [laits, lit, lit]. 
kitchen - 
range 
wife is out,” he said, “but I can show you the house.” 
waif iz aut” hi: sed, “bat ai kan fou ju: da haus.” 
There were two rooms and a kitchen downstairs, and 
dea wa: tu: ru:mz and a kit fin 1 daun'steaz, and 
two rooms and a bathroom upstairs. Marion hurried 
tu: ru:mz and a ba:prum 'Ap'steaz. mcBrian hArid 
from room to room, crying, “Isn’t this nice — isn’t that 
fram ru:m ta ru:m, kraiifj, “iznt dis nais — iznt dcet 
lovely!” at every new thing she discovered. “And to 
IavIi'!” at evri nju:. piy fi: dis'kAvad. “an ta 
think that I was born in this house! How strange!” 
piyk dat ai waz ba:n in dis haus! hau streind^!” 
“Yes, isn’t it,” her mother answered. “But come into 
“ jes, iznt it,” ha: mAdar a:nsad. “bat kAm inta 
the kitchen, dear; I want to see what it looks like now. 
da kit fin, dia; ai want ta si: hwat it luks laik nau. 
— It looks almost the same,” she continued, looking 
— it luks a:lmoust da seim,” fi: kan'tinju:d, lukirj 
about her. “The only difference is that it’s no longer 
a'baut ha:. “di ounli difrans iz dat its nou htjga 
lit by gas. They have electric light now.” 
lit bai gees. dei hav ilektrik lait nau” 
To the right was the kitchen-range, and just opposite, 
ta da rait waz da kitfinreind 3, and d$Ast apazit, 
at the other side of the kitchen, stood a small table 
at di Ada said av da kit fin, stud a sma:l teibl 
with four chairs round it and flowers in the centre. 
wid fa: tfeaz raund it and flauaz in da senta. 
732 
The Sixtieth (60th) Chapter. 
“We have our meals here,” the young man explained. 
“zvi: hav aud mi:lz hid” dd ]ayj man iks'pleind. 
“It’s easier for my wife. There's gas for cooking, of 
“its i:zid fd max waif. ddz gas fd kukiy, dv 
course, but in winter we always use the kitchen-range. 
ko:s, bdt in wintd wi: o:lwdz ju:z dd kitjinreind 3. 
It burns coal and keeps the kitchen warm all day. 
it bd:nz koul dn ki:ps dd kitfin wj:m o:l dei. 
I light the fire in the morning before my wife gets up, 
ai lait dd faidr in dd moiniy bi'fo: mai waif gets Ap, 
and put the kettle on the fire. So by the time we're 
dn put dd ketl on dd faid. sou bai dd taim wio 
dressed, the kitchen is already nice and warm, and 
drest, dd kitfin iz o:l'redi nais dn wo:m, dn 
kettle 
the water for our tea is boiling.” “That's the right 
dd zvj:td fdr aud ti: iz boiliy ." “dats dd rait 
spirit!” Mrs. Edwards said. “I was never able to make 
spirit!” misiz edwddz sed. “ai wdz nevdr eibl td meik 
my husband get up first.” 
mai hAzbdnd get Ap fd:st 
Beside the kitchen-range was a large gas-oven. “I had 
bi'said dd kitjinreind 3 wdz d la:d$ gasAvn. “ai had 
a gas-oven, too,” Mrs. Edwards said. “I was very proud 
d gasAvn, tu:” misiz edwddz sed. “ai wdz veri praud 
of it, I remember, for most of my friends had no 
av it, ai ri'membd, fd moust dv mai frendz had non 
gas-oven and had to use the oven of the kitchen-range. 
gasAvn dn had td ju:z di Avn dv dd kitjinreind 3. 
oven 
733 
Chapter Sixty (60). 
But one Christmas, when I had a big turkey in my 
bat w\n krismas, hwen ai heed a big ta:ki in mai 
gas-oven, a sudden wind from the open window blew 
gcesAvn, a s\dn wind frdin di oupdn windou blu: 
out the flame. I discovered it a few moments later 
ant dd fleim. ai dis'kAvad it a fju: moumants leitdr 
and went to light it again, of course. But as soon as 
an went td lait it a'gein, av ka:s. bat az sn:n az 
I lit the match, a big flame jumped out of the gas-oven 
ai lit da mcetf, a big fleim d^Ainpt aut av da geesAvn 
at me and burnt some of my hair. For a long time 
eet mi: an ba:nt sahi av mai hea. far a hfj taim 
after, I was afraid to light the gas-oven, and used 
a:fta, ai zvaz a'freid ta lait da geesAvn , an ju:zd 
my old oven in the kitchen-range, just like all my 
mai ould avh in da kitfinreind 3 , d^Ast laik d: 1 mai 
friends. 
frendz. 
“But here I’m just talking and talking,” she interrupted 
“bat hiar aim d^Ast to:kig an ta:kiy” fi: inta'rAptid 
herself, “and we haven’t heard yet how the two of you 
ha:'self, “an wi: heevnt ha:d jet han da ta: av ju: 
like the house.” “I think it looks fine,” Storm said. 
laik da haus” “ai pigk it luks fain” sta:m sed. 
“And I think it’s perfectly lovely,” Marion cried. 
“and ai piyk its pa:fiktli IavU,” meerian kraid. 
“Only I can’t understand how we can possibly afford 
“ounli ai ka:nt xnda'stcrnd hau zvi: kan posabli a'fa:d 
734 
The Sixtieth (60th) Chapter. 
it.” “It’s a cheap house,” the young man told her. 
it . 33 “its a tji:p haus , 33 da j\y merit tould ha:. 
“Probably because it's rather old. But everything is 
“prababli bi'kaz its ra:dar ould. bat evripiy iz 
well kept, so we’ve never felt that the house was old. 
zvel kept, sou wi:v neva felt dat da haus waz ould. 
And we’re only moving because we need more room; 
an wiar ounli mu.viy bi'kaz wi: ni:d mo: ru:m; 
we have two small children, as you saw upstairs.” 
u'i: hav tu: sma:l tfildran, az jit: so: Ap'steaz.” 
“If you’ll promise to light the fire every winter morning 
“if jn .7 pramis ta lait da faia evri winta rna.niy 
and put the kettle on to boil,” Marion said to Storm, 
an put da ketl an ta boil , 33 mccrian sed ta sta:m, 
as they left the house, “I think it would be lovely to 
az dei left da haus, “ai piyk it wad bi: Lwli ta 
start our married life here. And if we were married 
sta:t aua mcerid laif hid. and if wi: zva: mcerid 
in the middle of March, there would be two weeks 
in da midi av ma:tj, dea wad bi: tu: zui:ks 
to have the rooms painted and to hang the curtains 
ta hcev da ru:mz peintid an ta hcrij da ka:tnz 
and everything.” 
and cvripiy . 33 
“I promise,” Storm answered, taking her arm and 
“ai promis / 3 sto:m a:nsad, teikiy ha:r arm and 
showing her what little there was to be seen of the 
jouiy ha: hwat litl dea waz ta bi: si:n az> da 
735 
Chapter Sixty (60). 
do (here) = be 
enough 
WORDS: 
delight 
fetch 
feather 
worm 
insect 
seize 
kettle 
thread 
needle 
scissors 
pair of scissors 
mind 
somewhat 
ring 
secret 
guess 
gift 
garden. ‘Tm glad you’re satisfied. Remember Leith 
ga:dn. “aim glced jua scrtisfaid. ri'memba li:p 
Hill? Of course, it’s not so big as the farm, nor so 
hilf dv ka:s, its not sou big az da fa:m, no: sou 
modern as your parents’ house.” “But it’ll do for us,” 
madan az ja: pear ants haus” “bat itl du: far as,” 
Marion said. And arm in arm they walked back, full 
mcerian sed. and aim in aim dei waikt bak, ful 
of plans for the future which had suddenly drawn 
av plcenz fa da fjuitfa hwitf had SAdnli dram 
so near. 
sou nia. 
EXERCISE A. 
“Have you made up your — to have Elizabeth this 
afternoon?” Marion asked her mother. On a quiet 
Sunday afternoon the Edwardses and Storm were — 
in front of the fire. A — and — are used to sew with. 
A pair of — is used to cut paper and cloth with. 
The lion is a wild —. Elizabeth had — a big hole 
in one of Mrs. Edwards’ — and broken a fine dish, 
which was a — from her uncle in India. 
Storm told Marion that it was his sister’s greatest — 
to sit on a branch and throw things at him. Once she 
threw a — of flour at him. Storm was of the opinion 
that girls at that age can hardly be regarded as-. 
“Please — Elizabeth’s woollen cap with the —,” Eliza¬ 
beth’s mother said to a — who entered the room. Wild 
— have sharp teeth and —. 
736 
The Sixtieth (60th) Chapter. 
It is not far from — to smiles with small children. 
Elizabeth kept it as a great — that she was making 
a cap at school. At the Zoo, Storm pointed towards the 
lion saying, “His — the Lion, King of All Animals.” 
“He looks so sad to be — up here,” Marion said, “that 
I almost — I can see — in his eyes.” The lion got 
a large — with lots of meat on it and at once — it 
with his claws. 
In five minutes the big — had eaten it all up, and then 
he — over on one side to have a rest. Elizabeth had 
brought a bag of — and — for the monkeys. A bee 
is an —. Marion had carried — in her bag without 
knowing it. Storm had got a rise and at once spent 
it on a — for Marion. In the house where Marion’s 
parents had lived when they were younger, the kitchen 
was no longer — by gas; there was — light now. There 
was — for cooking, but in winter the — was used 
instead, and a — was put on, first thing in the morning. 
EXERCISE B. 
Answer these questions with full sentences: 
Have you any brothers or sisters? ... Are they younger 
or older than yourself? ... What is the kitchen of your 
home lit by? ... Do you smoke? ... If you do, what do 
you prefer to smoke? ... How much do you smoke a 
day? ... What time of the year do you like best, and 
why? ... 
EXERCISE C. GRAMMAR. 
The present and past tenses of do are used in sentences 
with ‘not\ In the sentence ‘John likes tea 5 the English 
probable 
spirit 
human 
being 
sisterly 
beside 
fancy 
joy 
beast 
dangerous 
tear 
tore 
torn 
claw 
tear 
opposite 
roll 
nut 
orange 
servant 
oven 
kitchen-range 
gas-oven 
flame 
gas 
light (verb) 
lit 
gather 
Majesty 
bone 
peaceful 
kind-hearted 
friendly 
737 
Chapter Sixty (60). 
cannot add ‘not’ to the verb, but must say: John does 
not like tea. Notice that this sentence is built up 
in the same way as the sentences with ‘can’, ‘may’, 
‘must 5 , ‘shall 5 , ‘will 5 . (I cannot go there. I could not 
go there.) Examples: I do not go there often. I did 
not go there. He did not see me. You do not swim 
very well. We did not get home till it was too late. 
In the same way do, does, and did are used in questions. 
Example: Does John like tea? Again the sentence is 
built up in the same way as sentences with ‘can*, ‘may 5 , 
‘must 5 , ‘shall 5 , ‘will 5 . (Can you go there?) Examples: 
Do you go there very often? Do you live in town? 
Does he go to school? Did the girl visit her aunt? 
Do is not used in questions (or interrogative sentences, 
as they are called) and sentences with ‘not 5 in the 
following cases: 
1. If the sentence contains a form of the verb ‘to be 5 . 
Examples: He is not here. Is he here? (Do is only 
used when ‘be 5 in connection with ‘not 5 contains the 
idea of commanding. Example: Don’t be foolish.) 
2. If the sentence contains one of the verbs ‘shall 5 , 
‘will 5 , ‘can 5 , ‘may 5 , ‘must 5 , ‘ought 5 . Examples: He 
will not help me. Will you help me? (Sometimes 
‘dare 5 and ‘need 5 are used without do in sentences with 
‘not 5 , and in questions. Examples: They dared not 
fight. Dare I ask you how much you paid for the book? 
I need not tell you what happened. Need it be said 
that I kept my promise?) 
3. Do is not as a rule used with ‘have 5 . Examples: 
Have you seen him? I had not seen him. We only 
738 
The Sixtieth (60th) Chapter. 
find do if ‘have’ is the main verb of the sentence. 
Examples: What did you have for dinner? I did not 
have fish for dinner. 
4. In interrogative sentences beginning with an inter¬ 
rogative pronoun that expresses the person or thing 
that is or does something, do is not used. Examples: 
Who said so? What happened? 
Do may also be used to call special attention to the 
action of the verb. Examples: ‘Do help me!’ (instead 
of just ‘Help me!’) As a rule he would not help his 
friends, but he did help me once. 
Questions: 
In what kinds of sentences is ‘do’ used? ... When is 
‘do’ used in sentences with ‘have’? ... In what kinds 
of interrogative sentences do we use ‘do’? ... 
EXERCISE D. 
siksti'eit, nelsn roud, 
wimbldan. 
da naintimp av d^crnjuari. 
dia wild, 
cii was veri glccd ta ri'si:v jo: leta di \da dei; it 
has bi:n a loij toim sins cii herd nju:s fram houm. da 
dei a:fta jo: letar a'raivd, ai ha:d fram mai sista, tu:. 
ai mast a:sk ju: ta bi: keaful, mai dia felou; ai si: 
fram boup jo: letas dat juar in da greitist deind^a! 
its klia dat ju: dount nou hwot o:l dis gouirj aut void a 
priti ga:l mei li:d tu : bi'fo: ju: nou hwot has heepnd 
ju:v a:skt ha: ta merri ju: — an den, dea ju: a:! 
739 
Chapter Sixty (60). 
bat ta bi: siarias far a moumant, aim glad dat ju: 
si:m ta laik i:tf Ada, a.Vdou ai niAst sei dat at karnt 
kzvait Anda'stand jet dat mai litl sista has groun Ap ta 
bi: a pa:sn dat jAy felous kan fa:l in Iav wid. 
mai oun a'feas hav bi:n di'velapiy rcepidli sins mai 
la:st leta. zvia gouiy ta bi: marid an ma:tj da sevn- 
ti:np. ai iks'pekt mai mAdar an sista ta kAin ouva hia, 
and it wad bi: a greit ple^a ta mi: if ju: an braun 
had kAin, tu:. pa'haps ju: kad hcev ja: halidis a:l'redi 
in ma:tf. an misis ma:jal wil let ju: hcev a ru:m at 
dea halts hwail jua hia, sou da trip wount bi: sou 
iks'pensiv as la:st taim. 
ai houp ju: kan kAin — aim a:l'redi lukiy fa:zvad ta 
ja: visit. 
ai zvif ju: a:l da best! 
sta:in 
740 
COPYRIGHT 
UNDER INTERNATIONAL COPYRIGHT CONVENTION 
PRINTED IN SWITZERLAND 