Chapter Seven (7). 
The Seventh (7th) Chapter. 
THE WEEK 
The day after Sunday is Monday. The day after 
da dei a:ftd SAndi iz mxndi. da dei a:fta 
Monday is Tuesday. The day before Sunday is Saturday. 
mAfidi is tju:zdi. da dei bi'fj: SAndi iz scetadi. 
The day before Saturday is Friday. The day after 
da dei bi'fj: scetadi iz fraidi. da dei a:fta 
Wednesday is Thursday. The day before Wednesday 
wenzdi iz pa:zdi. da dei bi'fj: wenzdi 
is Tuesday. It is Wednesday to-day. The day after 
iz tju:zdi. it iz wenzdi ta'dei. da dei a:fta 
to-day is Thursday. It is Thursday to-morrow. The 
ta'dei iz paizdi . it iz pa:zdi ta'mjrou. da 
day before to-day was Tuesday. It was Tuesday 
dei bi'fj: ta'dei wjz tjuizdi. it wjz tju:zdi 
is 
are 
was 
were 
To-day John is at 
school. 
Yesterday John 
was not at school. 
To-day the 
children are at 
school. 
Yesterday the 
children were not 
at school. 
yesterday. The day before yesterday was Monday. The 
jestadi. da dei bi'fj: jestadi wjz mAndi. da 
day after to-morrow is Friday. 
dei a:fta ta'mjrou iz fraidi. 
What day is to-day? To-day is Wednesday. What 
hwjt dei iz ta'dei? ta'dei iz wenzdi. hwjt 
day was yesterday? Yesterday was Tuesday. What 
dei wjz jestadi? jestadi wjz tju:zdi. hwjt 
day was the day before yesterday? The day before 
dei xv jz da dei bi'fj: jestadi? da dei bi'fj: 
52 
The Seventh (7th) Chapter. 
yesterday was Monday. 
jestddi wjz mAndi. 
To-morrow is Thursday. 
ta'mjrou iz pa:zdi. 
What day is to-morrow? 
hwat dei iz ta'mjrou? 
What day is the day after 
hwot dei iz da dei a:fta 
to-morrow? The day after to-morrow is Friday. 
ta'mjrou? da dei a:fta ta'mjrou iz fraidi. 
John and Helen are at school to-day. They go to school 
dyn and helin a: cet sku:l ta'dei. dei gou ta sku:l 
every day of the week except on Saturdays and Sundays. 
evri dei av da wi:k ik'sept jn scetadiz and SAndiz. 
They go to school every month of the year except in 
dei gou ta sku:l evri mAnp av da jia ik'sept in 
July and August. To-day is Wednesday; John goes to 
dy'lai and j:gast. ta'dei iz wenzdi; dyn gouz ta 
school on Wednesdays. Both John and Helen go to 
4ku:l jn wenzdiz. boup dyn and helin gou ta 
school on Wednesdays. The day before yesterday was 
sku:l an wenzdiz. da dei bi'fj: jestadi wjz 
Monday. John was at school on Monday. John and 
mAndi. dyn zvaz cet sku:l an mAndi. dyn and 
Helen were both at school on Monday. Was Helen at 
helm wa: boup cet sku:l an mAndi. wjz helin cet 
school the day before yesterday? Yes, she was. Were 
sku:l da dei bi'fj: jestadi? jes, fi: wjz. wa: 
both of the children at school on Monday? Yes, they 
boup av da tfildran cet sku:l an mAndi? jes, dei 
were both at school on Monday. John is at school 
wa: boup cet sku.l an mAndi. dyn iz cet sku:l 
goes 
go 
went 
He goes every day. 
They go everyday. 
He went yester¬ 
day. 
They went 
yesterday. 
53 
Chapter Seven (7). 
does 
do 
He does. 
They do. 
He is. Is he? 
They are. Are 
they? 
He has. Has he? 
They have. Have 
they? 
He learns. Does he 
learn? 
They learn. Do 
they learn? 
He goes. Does 
he go? 
They go. Do they 
go? 
both of = both 
Both of the 
children went to 
school = both the 
children went to 
school. 
to-day. He also went to school the day before yesterday. 
ta'dei. hi: a:lsou went ta sku:l da dei bi'fa: jestadi. 
Both the children went to school on Monday. 
boup da tjildran went ta sku:l an mAndi. 
The schools in England are English. The schools in 
da sku.lz in iy gland a: iyglif . da sku:lz in 
France are French. In some French schools the children 
fra:ns a: frenf. in saw frenf sku:lz da tjildran 
learn English. John goes to an English school. He 
la:n iyglif. dyn gouz tu an iyglif sku:l. hi: 
learns French at school. Does John go to school? Yes, 
la:nz frenf cet sku:l. dAZ dyn gou ta sku:lf jes, 
he does; he goes to school every day except on Satur- 
hi.\ dAz; hi: gouz ta sku:l evri dei ik'sept an sceta - 
days and Sundays. Does Helen go to school? Yes, she 
diz and SAndiz. dAZ helin gou ta sku:l? jes, fi: 
does; she also goes to school. Does John learn French? 
dAz; fi: a:lsou gouz ta sku:l. dAZ dyn la:n frenff 
Yes, he does; he learns French at school. Do both the 
jes, hi: dAz; hi: la:nz frenf cet sku:l. du: boup da 
children learn French? No, only John learns French; 
tjildran lain frenf? nou, ounli dyn la:nz frenf; 
Helen is too young to learn French; she is only ten years 
helin iz tu: jAy ta la:n frenf; fi: iz ounli ten jiaz 
old. Do the French children learn English? Yes, they 
ould. du: da frenf tjildran la:n iyglif? jes, dei 
do; they learn English at school. 
du:; dei la:n iyglif cet sku:l. 
54 
The Seventh (7th) Chapter. 
The schools in Denmark are Danish. Many Danish 
dd skuilz in denmaik a: deinif. meni deinif 
children learn English at school. The children 
tfildrdn h:n iyglif at sku:l. dd tfildrdn 
learn to read at school. They read books. They 
le:n td ri:d at sku:l. dei ri:d buks. dei 
also learn to write. The big children write with 
o:lsou ld:n td rait. dd big tfildrdn rait wid 
pens and ink. The small children write with pencils. 
penz dnd iyk. dd smo:l tfildrdn rait wid pensilz. 
They write on paper. What does John do at school? 
dei rait on peipd. hwot d\z dyn du: at sku:l? 
He learns to read and to write. What does Helen do 
hi: ld:nz td ri:d dnd td rait. hwot dAZ helin du: 
at school? She learns to read and to write. What do 
at sku:lf fi: Idinz td ri:d dnd td rait. hwot du: 
the other children do at school? They also learn to 
di Add tfildrdn du: cet sku:lf dei oilsou ld:n td 
read and to write. What does John learn to do? He 
ri:d dnd td rait. hwot dAZ dyn ld:n td du:? hi: 
learns to read and to write. What does Helen learn 
h:nz td ri:d dnd td rait. hwot dAZ helin lo:n 
to do? She learns to read and to write. What do the 
td du:? fi: Idinz td ri:d dnd td rait. hwot du: di 
other children learn to do? They also learn to read 
Add tfildrdn ld:n td du:? dei oilsou ld:n td ri:d 
and to write. 
dnd td rait. 
55 
Chapter Seven (7). 
to do 
to read 
to write 
What does John 
learn to do at 
school? 
What does John do on Sundays? On Sundays he reads 
hwot d\z dyn du: on SAndizf on SAndiz hi: ri:dz 
a book or plays with a ball in the garden. What does 
d bak o: pleiz wid d bo:l in da ga:dn. hwot d\z 
He learns to read 
and to write. 
the [do] [before 
to [to] ) 
b 
c 
d 
f 
i 
i 
1 
m 
n 
P 
q 
r 
8 
t 
v 
Helen do on Sundays? She plays with her doll, or she 
helin du: on SAndiz? ji: pleiz wid ha: dol, o: fi: 
and John play with their ball. What do children do 
and dyn plei wid dea bod. hwot du: tjildran du: 
when they are not at school? They read their school- 
hwen dei a: not cet skudf dei ri:d dea sku.l- 
books and play in the garden and in the house with 
buks and plei in da ga:dn and in da hcius wid 
dolls and with balls. What does John read? He reads 
dolz and wid bodz. hwot dAZ dyn ri:df hi: ri:dz 
an ) 
the [Ji] [before 
to [tu] } 
a 
e 
i 
o 
u 
(h) 
a man 
an ink-stand 
a young [/a**] man 
an old man 
the [8o] man 
the [Ji] ink-stand 
the [do] young 
[jAti] man 
the [Ji] old man 
to [to] school 
to [tu] an English 
school 
books. What does Helen write with? She writes with 
buks. hwot dAZ helin rait wid? fi: raits wid 
a pen and ink. 
a pen and iyk. 
Where is the ink? The ink is in the ink-stand. What 
hwear iz di iyk? di iyk iz in di iykstcend. hwot 
is the colour of ink? The colour of ink is blue. What 
iz da kAla av iyk? da k\la av iyk iz bin:, hwot 
is the colour of John’s eyes? They are also blue. Many 
iz da kAla av dynz aiz? dei a: odsou blu:. meni 
people in England have blue eyes. What do the small 
pi:pi in iygland hcev blu: aiz. hwot du: da smod 
children write with? They write with pencils. What 
tfildran rait zvid? dei rait wid pensilz. hwot 
56 
The Seventh (7th) Chapter. 
do the children write on? They write on paper. 
du: dd tfildran rait on? dei rait on peipd. 
Does John go to school on Sundays? No, he does not; 
dAZ dyn gou to sku:l on s\ndizf nou, hi: dAZ not; 
on Sundays he is in the garden, or he reads a book in 
on SAndiz hi: iz in dd ga:dn, o: hi: ri:dz a buk in 
the house. Does Helen also read on Sundays? No, she 
da haus. dAZ helin odsou ri:d on SAndizf nou , fi: 
does not; she plays with a ball in the garden or with 
dAZ not; fi: pleiz wid a bod in da ga:dn o: wid 
her doll. Does Baby play with a ball? No, she does 
ha: dol. dAZ beibi plei wid a bod? nou, fi: dAZ 
not; she is too small to play with a ball; she plays with 
not; fi: iz tu: smo:l ta plei wid a bod; fi: pleiz wid 
a small doll and with her toes. Does John play with 
a smod dol and zvid ha: touz. dAZ dyn plei wid 
a doll? No, he does not; boys do not play with dolls. 
a dol? nou, hi: dAZ not; boiz du: not plei wid dolz. 
Does John learn German at school? No, he does not; 
dAZ dyn la:n d$a:man eet skud? nou, hi: d*z not; 
he learns French. Do the small children write with 
hi: la:nz frenf. du: da smod tfildran rait wid 
pens and ink? No, they do not; they are too small to 
penz and iyk? nou, dei du: not; dei a: tu: smod ta 
write with pens and ink. Do the parents go to school? 
rait wid penz and iyk. du: da pear ants gou ta skud? 
No, they do not; they are too old to go to school, but 
nou, dei du: not; dei a: tu: ould ta gou ta skud, bAt 
does not 
do not 
Helen is not a boy. 
They are not old. 
The baby has not 
much hair. 
They have not 
many children. 
She does not read. 
They do not read. 
He does not write. 
They do not write. 
57 
Chapter Seven (7). 
they went to school when they were children. John 
dei went td sku:l hwen dei wa: tfildran. dyn 
does not go to school on Sundays. Helen does not learn 
d\z not gou ta sku:l on sxndiz. helin dAZ not la:n 
Russian at school. The children in England do not learn 
rxjan <zt sku:l. da tfildran in iygland du: not la:n 
Russian at school. Baby does not go to school; she is 
r\fan cet sku:l. beibi d\z not gou ta sku:l; ji: iz 
too young to go to school; she is only six months old. 
tu: j\Y} ta gou ta sku:l; ji: iz ounli siks mAnps ould. 
John’s parents do not go to school; they are too old 
dynz pearants du: not gou ta sku:l; dei a: tu: ould 
to go to school, but when they were young, they went 
ta gou ta sku:l, bAt hwen dei wa: )Afj, dei went 
to school. John and Helen go to school; they are not 
ta sku:l. dyn and helin gou ta sku:l; dei a: not 
too old to go to school. 
tu: ould to gou ta sku:l. 
Do all the children in the school write with pens and 
du: o:l da tfildran in da sku:l rait wid penz and 
ink? All the children write with pens and ink except 
ifjkf o:l da tfildran rait wid penz and irjk ik'sept 
the small children; they are too young to write with 
da smo:l tfildran; dei a: tu: jAfj ta rait wid 
pens and ink. What do the small children learn to write 
penz and itjk. hwot du: da smo:l tfildran la:n ta rait 
with? They learn to write with pencils. What do 
widf dei la:n ta rait wid pensilz. hwot du: 
too 
to 
Too old to go to 
school. 
58 
The Seventh (7th) Chapter. 
they write on? They write on paper. What is the 
dei rait or? dei rait on peipa. hwot iz do 
colour of the paper? The colour of the paper is white. 
k\ld av da peipa? da k\la av da peipa iz hwait. 
Are the parents too old to play? No, they are not. 
a: da p ear ants tu: ould ta plei? nou, dei a: not. 
Mrs. Smith plays with her baby, and Mr. Smith plays 
misiz smip pleiz wid ha: beibi, and mist a smip pleiz 
with John and Helen in the garden with a ball. 
wid dyn and helin in da ga.dn wid a bod. 
EXERCISE A. 
The day — Sunday is Monday. The day — Sunday is 
Saturday. The day — Saturday is Sunday. The 
day — Friday is Saturday. The day — Friday is Thurs¬ 
day. The day — Wednesday is Thursday. The day — 
Wednesday is Tuesday. To-day — Wednesday, and 
— is Thursday. To-morrow is Friday, and — is Thurs¬ 
day. To-day — Monday, and — was Sunday. Yester¬ 
day — Tuesday, and to-day — Wednesday. To-day is 
Thursday, — is Friday, and the-is Saturday. 
To-day is Tuesday; — was Monday, and the- 
was Sunday. 
To-day is Wednesday; John and Helen are — school 
to-day. John — to school every day — on Saturdays 
59 
Chapter Seven (7). 
WORDS: 
after 
before 
to-day 
to-morrow 
yesterday 
school 
Danish 
learn 
read 
write 
book 
pencil 
pen 
ink 
ink-stand 
paper 
play 
doll 
ball 
blue 
with 
to 
too 
every 
except 
go 
goes 
went 
was 
were 
do 
does 
and Sundays. John and Helen — to school — day 
except on Saturdays and Sundays. John — to school 
the day before yesterday. John and Helen — to school 
the day before yesterday. At some French schools the 
children — English. John — French at school. The 
children — books. John — English and French books. 
Helen does not — French at school; she is only ten-. 
The ink is in the —. The colour of the ink is —. The 
colour of John's eyes is also —. — John learn Russian 
at school? No, he — not learn Russian. — the French 
children learn English at school? Yes, some —. 
— the English children learn Russian? No, they — 
not. — they learn French? Yes, they —. What — 
the children learn at school? They learn — read and 
— write. What — the big children write with? They 
write with — and —. — the small children also write 
with pens and ink? No, they — not write with pens 
and ink. What — they write with? They write 
with —. What — John write on? He writes on —. 
What — Helen write on? She also — on paper. What 
— John do at school? He — to read and to write. 
What does Helen — at school? She also learns — read 
and — write. 
What — the children do on Sundays? They — with 
balls or with dolls. Where — the children play ? They 
— in the garden or in the house. — John play with 
dolls? No, he-play with dolls; he — with a ball 
or — a book. Does the baby — to school? No, she 
is — young to go to school. Are the parents — young 
— go to school? No, they are not — young — go to 
school; they are — old. — Helen old? No, Helen- 
60 
The Seventh (7th) Chapter. 
old. — Helen learn French? No, Helen — not learn 
French. — John a boy? Yes, John — a boy. — he 
learn French? Yes, he — French. Are Helen and 
Baby old? No, Helen and Baby-old. — the 
English children learn Russian? No, the English 
children — not learn Russian. — Helen and Baby 
sisters? Yes, Helen and Baby — sisters. — the 
children learn French? John — French; Helen — not 
learn French; she is — young — learn French; she is — 
ten years old. — John three sisters? No, John- 
three sisters. — Helen and Alice two brothers? No, 
they-two brothers; they have only one. 
EXERCISE B. 
When do the children go to school? . . . Were the 
children at school yesterday? ... Is John at school to¬ 
day? . . . What day is to-morrow? . . . What do the 
children learn at school? ... Do they learn French in 
the English schools? ... Do the children in France learn 
English? ... What do the big children write with? ... 
What do the small children write with? ... What do 
they write on? ... What does John read? ... Does Baby 
go to school? ... Do the parents go to school? ... Are 
John and Helen too young to go to school? ... What 
do the children do after school? . . . Where do they 
play? ... What does Baby play with? ... Does she play 
with a ball? ... 
61 
