Chapter Eight (8). 
The Eighth (8th) Chapter. 
THE CLOCK 
A day has twelve hours. A night has also twelve hours. 
a dei hcez twelv auaz. a nait hcez a:lsou twelv auaz. 
A day and a night have twenty-four (24) hours. An 
a dei and a nait hcev twentifa: auaz. an 
hour has sixty (60) minutes, and a minute has sixty (60) 
aua hcez siksti minits, and a minit hcez siksti 
seconds. How many hours has a day? It has twelve 
sekandz. hau meni auaz hcez a dei? it hcez twelv 
hours. How many hours have a day and a night? 
auaz. hau meni auaz hcev a dei and a nait? 
A day and a night have twenty-four (24) hours. How 
a dei and a nait hcev twentifa: auaz. hau 
many minutes are there in an hour? There are sixty (60) 
meni minits a: dee in an aua? dear a: siksti 
minutes in an hour. How many seconds are there in 
minits in an aua. hau meni sekandz a: dea in 
clock 
a minute? There are sixty seconds in a minute. An 
a minit? dear a: siksti sekandz in a minit. an 
hour is a long time; a second is a short time. 
aua iz a lay taim; a sekand iz a ja:t taim. 
On the wall in Mr. Smith’s house is a clock. The clock 
an da wa:l in mist a smips haus iz a klak. da klak 
has a face with twelve figures on it. 1 is a figure, 
hcez a feis wid twelv figaz an it. w\n iz a figs, 
The Eighth (8th) Chapter. 
3 is a figure, 11 is a figure. There are also two 
pri: iz a figs, ilevn iz a figa- dear a: ailsou tu: 
hands on the clock, a long hand and a short hand. The 
hcendz an da klak, a lay hand, and a Ja:t hcend. da 
hands of the clock give the time. The short hand gives 
hcendz av da klak giv da taim. da fa:t hcend givz 
the hours, and the long hand gives the minutes. 
di auaz, and da lay hcend givz da minits. 
Where is Mr. Smith's clock? It is on the wall in his 
hwear iz mist a smips klak? it iz an da wa:l in hiz 
house. What does the clock do? The clock gives the 
haus. hwat d\z da klak du:f da klak givz da 
time of the day; the short hand gives the hours, and 
taim av da dei; da fait hcend givz di auaz, and 
the long hand gives the minutes. Is there no hand to 
da lay hcend givz da minits. iz dea nou hcend ta 
give the seconds? Yes, on the face of the clock there 
giv da sekandzf jes, an da feis av da klak dear 
is another small face with figures and a very small 
iz a'n\da sma:t feis wid figaz and a veri sma:l 
hand. Are the figures also very small? Yes, they are 
hcend. a: da figaz a:lsou veri sma:l? jes, dei a: 
very small. Baby is very young; she is only six months 
veri sma:l. heibi iz veri j\y; fi: iz ounli siks mAnps 
old. Is Mr. Smith very old? No, he is not; he is 
ould. iz mist a smip veri ouldf nou, hi: iz nat; hi: iz 
thirty-six (36) years old. A second is a very short time. 
paiti'siks jiaz ould. a sekand iz a veri fait taim. 
watch 
A watch is smaller than a clock. Mr. Smith has a watch, 
a wotf iz smo.la dan a klok. mista smip haz a wotf, 
and Mrs. Smith has a very small watch on her arm, but 
and misiz smip haz a veri smo:l wotf on ha: a:m, b\t 
John and Helen have no watches; they are too young 
dyn and helin hav nou wotfiz; dei a: tu: j\g 
to have watches. Mr. Smith gave Mrs. Smith her watch 
ta hav wotfiz. mista smip geiv misiz smip ha: wotj 
when she was twenty-five (25) years old. The day 
hwen fi: woz twenti'faiv jiaz ould. da dei 
when she was twenty-five (25) years old was her birth- 
hwen fi: woz tzventi'faiv jiaz ould woz ha: ba:p - 
day. Her birthday is on the twenty-ninth (29th) of 
dei. ha: ba:pdei iz on da twenti'nainp av 
October. John’s birthday is on the twenty-sixth (26th) 
ok'touba. dynz ba.pdei iz on da twenti'siksp 
of July. On his birthday his parents gave him some 
av dy'lai. on hiz ba.pdei hiz pear ants geiv him s\m 
books and a football. 
buks and a futbo:l. 
Has Mrs. Smith a watch? Yes, Mr. Smith gave Mrs. Smith 
haz misiz smip a wotff jes, mista smip geiv misiz smip 
a watch on her birthday, when she was twenty-five (25) 
a wotf on ha: ba:pdei, hwen fi: woz twenti'faiv 
years old. Has John a football? Yes, his parents gave 
jiaz ould. haz dyn a futbo:lf jes, hiz pear ants geiv 
him a football on his birthday. In two years, when he 
him a futbo:l on hiz ba:pdei. in tu: jiaz, hwen hi: 
The Eighth (8th) Chapter. 
is fourteen (14) years old, his father will give him a 
iz jiaz ould, hiz fa:da wil giv him a 
watch on his birthday. When he is fourteen, he will 
zvotf on hiz ba:pdei. hwen hi: iz fo:ti:n, hi: wil 
have a watch. His father will not give him a watch 
hcev a zvotf. hiz fa:da wil not giv him a wotj 
when he is thirteen (13) years old. The children will 
hwen hi: iz pa:ti:n jiaz ould. da tfildran wil 
go to school to-morrow. They will read their books, 
gou ta sku:l ta'moron. dei zvil ri:d dea buks, 
and they will write with pens or pencils. When it is 
and dei wil rait void penz o: pensilz. hwen it iz 
John's birthday, he will be thirteen (13) years old. 
dynz ba:pdei, hi: wil bi: pa:ti:n jiaz ould. 
Helen will be eleven years old on her birthday. Baby 
lielin wil bi: i'levn jiaz ould on ha: ba:pdei. beibi 
will be one year old on her birthday. To-morrow the 
wil bi: WAn jia ould on ha: ba:pdei. ta'morou da 
children will be at school. The parents will not be at 
tfildran wil bi: cet sku:l. da pearants zvil not bi: cet 
school; they will be in the house. After school the 
sku:l; dei wil bi: in da haus. a:fta sku:l da 
children will be in the garden. 
tfildran wil bi: in da ga:dn. 
When will John be fourteen (14) years old? He will 
hzven zvil dyn bi: fo:ti:n jiaz ould? hi: wil 
be fourteen (14) in two years. When is Helen's birthday? 
bi: fo:ti:n in tu: jiaz. hwen iz helinz ba.pdeif 
gives 
give 
gave 
will give 
John gives Helen 
a pear. 
John and Helen 
give Baby a ball. 
Yesterday John 
gave Helen a pear. 
Yesterday John 
and Helen gave 
Baby a ball. 
To-morrow John 
will give Helen 
a pear. 
To-morrow John 
and Helen will 
give Baby a ball. 
is 
are 
was 
were 
will be 
To-day John is at 
school. 
To-day both John 
and Helen are at 
school. 
Yesterday John 
was at school. 
Yesterday both 
John and Helen 
were at school. 
To-morrow John 
will be at school. 
Both John and 
Helen will be at 
school to-morrow. 
Helen’s birthday is on the sixteenth (16th) of March. 
helinz bd’.pdei iz on dd sikstirnp ov ma:tf. 
When is Mr. Smith’s birthday? His birthday is on the 
hwen iz mist3 smips bd’.pdei? hiz bd'.pdei iz on dd 
thirteenth (13th) of July. When is the baby’s birth- 
po:ti:np ov d^u'lai. hwen iz dd beibiz bd.'p- 
day? Her birthday is on the tenth (10th) of June. 
dei? hd: bd'.pdei iz on dd tenp dv d%u:n. 
Where will the children be to-morrow? To-morrow 
hwed wil dd tfildron bi: td'morouf td' moron 
they will be at school. When will the baby be one year 
dei wil bi: cut sku.l. hwen wil dd beibi bi: w\n jid 
old? She will be one year old in six months. Helen 
ouldf fi: wil bi: w\n jid onld in siks niAtips. helin 
will be fourteen (14) in four years. Mrs. Smith will be 
zml bi: fo:ti:n in fo: jidz. misiz smip wil bi: 
thirty-five (35) in three years. 
pd'.ti'faiv in pri: jidz. 
When the short hand is at the figure 2 and the long 
hwen dd fo:t hcend iz cut dd figd tu: dnd dd log 
hand at the figure 12, it is two o’clock. When the short 
hcend cut dd figd twelv, it iz tu: o'klok. hwen dd fo:t 
hand is at 3 and the long hand at 12, it is three o’clock. 
hcend iz cet pri: dnd dd lot) hcend cet twelv, it iz pri: d'klok. 
When the short hand is at 3 and the long hand at 11, 
hwen dd fo:t hcend iz cet pri: dnd dd lot) hcend cet i'levn, 
it is five minutes to three. When the long hand is at 
it iz faiv minits td pri:. hwen dd log hcend iz cet 
The Eighth (8th) Chapter. 
1 and the short hand at 3, it is five minutes past 
WAn and da ja :t hand cat pri:, it iz faiv minits pa:st 
three. What time is it when the short hand is at 4 
pri:, hwat taim iz it hwen da fa:t hand iz cat fa: 
and the long hand at 3? Then it is a quarter past four. 
and da lay hcand cat pri:? den it iz a kwa.ta pa.st fa:. 
What time is it when the short hand is at 5 and the 
hwat taim iz it hzven da fa:t hcand iz cat faiv and da 
long hand at 9? Then it is a quarter to five. What 
lay hcand cat nain? den it iz a kwa: ta ta faiv. hwat 
time is it when the long hand is at 5 and the short 
taim iz it hwen da lay hand iz at faiv and da ja:t 
hand is between 1 and 2? Then it is twenty-five (25) 
hand iz bi'twi:n wau and tu:f den it iz twenttfaiv 
minutes past one. What time is it when the long hand 
minits pa:st wah. hwat taim iz it hwen da lay hand 
is at 6 and the short hand is between 5 and 6? 
iz at siks and da fa:t hand iz bi'twi:n faiv and siks? 
Then it is half past five. Half an hour is thirty (30) 
den it iz ha:f pa:st faiv. ha:f an aua iz pa:ti 
minutes. A quarter of an hour is fifteen (15) minutes. 
minits. a kwa:ta av an aua iz fifti:n minits. 
At what time do the children go to school? They go 
at hwat taim du: da tjildran gou ta sku:l? dei gou 
to school at nine o’clock. (They go to school at nine.) 
ta sku:l at nain a'klak. (dei gou ta sku:l at nain.) 
How long are the children at school? They are at 
hau lay a: da tjildran at sku:l? dei a: at 
What time is it? 
It is two o’clock. 
(It is two.) 
It is ten minutes 
past two. 
It is five minutes 
to two. 
school from nine o'clock to four o’clock (from nine to 
sku:l from nain a'khk td fo: a'khk (from nain td 
four). They are at school from nine o'clock to twelve 
fo:). dei a: cet sku:l from min a'khk td twelv 
o'clock. At twelve o’clock they go to their houses. Then 
a'khk. cet twelv a'khk dei gou ta dea hauziz. den 
they go to school at two o’clock and are there from two 
dei gou ta sku:l cet tu: a'khk and a: dea from tu: 
o’clock to four o’clock. At what time do the children 
a'khk ta fo: a'khk. cet hwot taim du: da tfildran 
go home from school? They go home from school at 
gou houm from sku:l? dei gou houm from sku:l cet 
four o'clock (at four). Their father is not at home when 
fo: a'khk (cet fo:). dea fa:da iz not cet houm hwen 
they come from school, but their mother is at home. 
dei k\m from sku:l, l?At dea m\da iz cet houm. 
Their father comes home at half past five; then all the 
dea fa:da k\mz houm cet ha:f pa:st faiv; den o:l da 
persons in the family are at home. 
pa:snz in da fcemili a: cet houm. 
When the children are at school, they are away from 
hwen da tfildran a: cet sku:l, dei a: a'wei from 
home. They are away from home from nine o'clock 
houm. dei a: a'wei from houm from nain a'khk 
to twelve o’clock, and from two o’clock to four o’clock. 
ta twelv a'khk, and from tu: a'khk ta fo: a'khk. 
They are away from home for five hours. Mr. Smith 
dei a: a'wei from houm fo: faiv auaz. mist a smip 
The Eighth (8th) Chapter. 
goes away from home at half past eight and comes 
gouz d'wei from houm cet ha:f pa:st eit and k\mz 
home at half past five; he is away from home for nine 
houm cet ha:f pa:st faiv; hi: iz d'wei from houm fo: nain 
hours every day. He is at home for fifteen (15) hours. 
audz evri dei. hi: iz cet houm fo: fifti:n auoz. 
The children are at home for nineteen (19) hours. When 
dd tjildran a: cet houm fo: nainti:n auaz. hwen 
does Mr. Smith come home? He comes home at half 
d\z mist a smip hm houmf hi: k\mz houm cet ha:f 
past five. What time is it when Mr. Smith comes 
pa:st faiv. hwot taim iz it hwen mist a smip k\mz 
home? It is half past five. How long is he away from 
houm? it iz ha:f pa:st faiv. hau log iz hi: d'wei from 
home every day? He is away for nine hours. How 
houm evri dei? hi: iz d'wei fo: nain auaz. hau 
long are the children away? They are away from 
log a: da tjildran a'wei? dei a: d'wei from 
home for five hours. On Sundays they are all at 
houm fo: faiv auaz. on sAndiz dei a: o:l cet 
home. In summer the children play for two hours 
houm. in SAina da tjildran plei fo: tu: auaz 
in the garden, but at half past six it is time for the 
in da ga.dn, bAt cet ha:f pa:st siks it iz taim fo: da 
children to read their school-books. Where are John 
tjildran ta ri:d dea skudbuks. hwear a: dyn 
and Helen when they read their school-books? Then 
and helin hwen dei ri:d dea skudbuks? den 
they are in the house. When is it time to go to school? 
dei a: in da haus. hwen iz it taim ta gou ta sku:lf 
It is time to go to school at nine o’clock. When is it 
it iz taim ta gou ta sku:l cet nain a'khk. hwen iz it 
time to come in from the garden? It is time to come 
taim ta hm in from da ga:dn? it iz taim ta kAm 
in from the garden at half past six. What do the children 
in from da ga:dn cet ha:f pa:st siks. hwat du: da tfildran 
do when they come in from the garden? They read 
du: hwen dei kAm in from da ga:dnf dei ri:d 
their school-books. 
dea sku:lbuks. 
EXERCISE A. 
smaller than a clock. The day when Mrs. Smith was 
twenty-sixth of July. On his birthday, John’s parents 
The Eighth (8th) Chapter. 
eleven years old on her birthday. The baby-one 
year old on her birthday. Helen will be fourteen years 
months. When the short hand is at three and the 
hand is at five and the long hand at eleven, it is 
When the long hand is at nine and the short hand at 
away from home? He goes away from home- 
WORDS: 
o’clock 
clock 
watch 
night 
hour 
minute 
second 
give 
gave 
very 
time 
birthday 
football 
in > 
will 
be 
figure 
past 
to 
half 
quarter 
then 
between 
for 
him 
home 
at home 
from 
come 
away 
fifteen 
nineteen 
twenty-four 
twenty-five 
sixty 
sixteenth 
twenty-sixth 
twenty-ninth 
thirty 
thirty-five 
EXERCISE B. 
