Chapter Nine (9). 
The Ninth (9th) Chapter. 
THE SCHOOL 
In the school there are many rooms. There are not 
in da sku:l dear a: mcni ru:mz. dear a: not 
many rooms in Mr. Smith’s house; there are only five 
mcni ru:mz in mista smips haus; dear a: ounli faiv 
rooms in his house. The school is a very big house, 
ru:mz in hiz haus . da sku:l iz a veri big Jraus , 
and in it there are twenty (20) rooms. 
and in it dear a: twenti ru:mz. 
At nine o’clock in the morning the children come into 
a?t nain a'khk in da mo:nig da tfildran kAm inta 
the schoolroom. When all the children are in the room, 
da sku:lru:m. hwen a:l da tfildran a: in da ru:m, 
the teacher comes into the room. When he comes into 
da ti:tfa k\mz inta da ru:m. hwen hi: kAmz inta 
the room, he says, “Good morning, children! Are you 
da new, hi: see, “gud ma:nirj , tfildran! a: ju: 
all here to-day?” John says, “No, my sister is not here 
a:l hi a ta'dci?” dyn sez, “nou, mai sista iz not hia 
to-day; she is at home.” “Oh,” says the teacher, “is 
ta'dci: fi: iz cet houm.” “ou” sez da ti.tfa, “iz 
your sister ill to-day?” “Yes, my sister is ill to-day. 
jua sista il tadei?” “jes, mai sista iz il ta'dei. 
Yesterday it was cold, and she was, in the garden too 
jest ad i it wjz kould, and fi: waz in da ga:dn tu: 
teacher 
go [gou] 
goes Igoua ] 
do [du:] 
does [dAz] 
say [sei] 
says Ufs] 
I am 
you are 
he is 
she is 
it is 
we are 
you are 
they are 
John says, “I am 
a boy.” 
He says to Helen, 
“You are a girl, 
and Baby is also 
a girl,” and she 
says, “Yes, and you 
and Baby and I 
are children; we 
are children.” 
The pencil is good; 
it is good. 
John says, “You 
and Alice are girls; 
you are girls.” 
Helen and Alice 
are girls; they are 
girls. 
3/1 
73 
Chapter Nine (9). 
my 
your 
his 
her 
its 
our 
your 
their 
John says, “Helen 
is my sister.” 
“Where is your 
sister, John?” 
The girls have a 
brother; his name 
is John. 
The teacher gives 
Helen her book. 
The baby has a 
doll; its arms and 
legs are small. 
John says, “Our 
house is small.” 
“How many rooms 
has your house, 
John and Helen?” 
The house of Mr. 
and Mrs. Smith 
has five rooms; 
their house is not 
big. 
long; and to-day she is ill, she has a cold.” “Have you 
lay; and ta'dei fi: iz il, fi: hcez a kould” “hcev ju: 
also a cold, John?” “Oh no, I am not ill,” says John, 
j:Isou a kould, dyn?” “ou nou, ai cem not il,” sez dyn, 
“I am well. I was not in the garden very long. When 
“ai cem wel. ai woz not in da ga:dn veri lay. hwen 
it was too cold, I went into the house.” 
it woz tu: kould, ai went inta da haus” 
Teacher: “What does your mother say to Helen, John?” 
ti:tfa: “hwat d\z jua mAda sei ta helin, dyn ?” 
“My mother says to my sister: You are not a good girl, 
“max mxda sez ta mai sista: ju: a: njt a gud ga:l, 
Helen, when you are in the garden for so long. John 
helin, hwen ju: a: in da ga:dn fa: sou lay. dyn 
went into the house when he was too cold, and he has 
went inta da haus hwen hi: waz tu: kould, and hi: hcez 
no cold; he is not ill, he is well.” 
nou kould; hi: iz nat il, hi: iz wel ” 
“How many rooms have you in your house, John?” 
“hau meni ru:mz hcev ju: in jua haus, dyn?” 
“We have five rooms in our house.” “How many 
“wi: hcev faiv ru:mz in aua haus” “hau meni 
persons are you in your family?” “We are five persons 
pa:snz a: ju: in jua fcemili?” “wi: a: faiv pa:snz 
in our family.” “How many children are there in your 
in aua fcemili” “hau meni tfildran a: dea in jua 
family?” “There are three children in our family.” 
fcemili?” “dear a: pri: tfildran in aua fcemili” 
74 
The Ninth (9th) Chapter. 
“Who are the children in your family?” “They are my 
“hu: a: da tjildrdn in jua fcemili?” “dei a: mat 
two sisters, Helen and Alice, and I.” 
tu: sistaz, helin and celis, and ai” 
The teacher gives all the children pencils to write with. 
da ti:tfa givz a :l da tfildran pensilz ta rait wid. 
John says to the teacher, “Will you give me another 
dyn scz ta da ti:tfa, “wil jn: giv mi: a'n\da 
pencil? My pencil is not very good.” “Yes, I will 
pensil? mai pensil iz not veri gad” “jes, ai wil 
give you another pencil; here is one,” the teacher says 
giv ju: a'n\da pensil; hiar iz w\nda ti:tfa sez 
and gives him a pencil. He also gives him a pencil 
and givz him a pensil. hi: a Asou givz him a pensil 
for Helen; John will give it to her when he comes 
fa: helin; dyn wil giv it ta ha: hwen hi: k\mz 
home. 
houm . 
Has John a pencil? Yes, but it is not very good; the 
Inez dyn a pensilf jes, b\t it iz not veri gud ; da 
teacher gives him another one, and he also gives him 
ti:tja givz him a'n\da wau, and hi: dAsou givz him 
one for Helen. John says he will give her the pencil 
wah fa: helin. dyn sez hi: wil giv ha: da pensil 
one 
John has a long 
pencil; Helen has 
a short one. 
when he comes home. Are all the children at school? 
hwen hi: kAinz houm. a: a:l da tfildran cet skuAf 
No, Helen is not at school, but when she is well, she 
nou, helin iz nat cet sku:l, bAt hwen fi: iz wel, ji: 
75 
Chapter Nine (9). 
will go to school. Does the teacher give all the children 
wil gou ta sku:l. dAz da ti:tja giv a:l da tjildran 
pencils? Yes, when their pencils are not very good, or 
pensilz? jes, hwen dea pensilz a: nat veri gud, a: 
when they have no pencils, the teacher gives them 
hwen dei hoev non pensilz, da ti:tja givz dem 
pencils. What do the children say? They say, “Will 
pensilz. hwat du: da tjildran seif dei sei, “wil 
me 
you 
him 
her 
it 
us 
you 
them 
John says, “The 
teacher gives me 
a pencil.” 
The teacher says 
to John, “I will 
give you a pencil.” 
The teacher gives 
John a pencil; he 
gives him a pencil. 
He gives Helen a 
book; he gives her 
a book. 
Mr. Smith gives 
his house a name; 
he gives it a name. 
The children say 
to the teacher, 
“Will you give us 
some pencils?” 
The teacher says, 
“Yes, I will give 
you some pencils.” 
The teacher gives 
the children some 
pencils; he gives 
them some pencils. 
you give us some other pencils?” And the teacher 
jn: giv as saih \da pensilz?” and da ti.tja 
says, “Yes, I will give you some other pencils; here are 
sez, “jes, ai wil giv ju: s.\m \da pensilz; hiar a: 
some pencils for you.” 
SAin pensilz fa: ju:” 
The teacher has no book. He says to one of the 
da ti:tfa hcez nou buk. hi: sez ta w\n av da 
children, “Have you your book? Will you give it to 
tjildran, <( hcev ju: jua huh? wil ju: giv it ta 
me? I have no book to-day.” What is the colour of 
mi:? ai hcev nou buk ta'dei” hwat iz da k\la av 
ink? Its colour is blue. What is the colour of the 
irjk? its k\la iz bln:. hwat iz da Ua la av da 
walls of the room? Its walls are green. What is the 
wa:lz av da ru:m? its wa:lz a: gri:n. hwat iz da 
colour of the paper of the books? Its colour is white. 
Ua la av da peipa av da buks? its kAla iz hwait. 
What will John’s father give him on his birthday? He 
hwat wil d^anz fa:da giv him an hiz ba.pdei? hi: 
76 
The Ninth (9th) Chapter. 
will give him a watch. Will he also give Helen a 
wil giv him o wjtj. wil hi: o:lsou giv helin 3 
watch? No, he will not give her a watch. When the 
wotjf nou, hi: wil not giv ho: 3 wotf. hwen do 
I 
you 
he 
she 
it 
} play 
1 plays 
children are good, their mother gives them balls to play you \ play 
tjildron a: gnd, deo m\do givs dem bo:lz td plei they I 
with. When the children are good at school, the teacher 
wid. hwen do tjildron a: gud cet sku:l, do ti:tjo 
reads to them from his book. 
ri:ds to dem from his buk. 
Yesterday the children came to school at nine o’clock 
jestodi do tjildron keim to sku:l cet nain o'klok 
in the morning. When the children came to school 
in do mo:niy. hwen do tjildron keim. to sku:l 
yesterday, the teacher said “Good-morning” to them. 
jestodi, do ti:tfo sed “gud mo:niy 33 to dem . 
Helen’s mother said to her yesterday, “Come into the 
helins niAdo sed to ho: jestodi, “kxm into do 
house; it is too cold to play in the garden; come in, or 
haus; it is tu: kould to plei in do ga:dn; kAin in, o: 
you will be ill.” 
ju: wil bi: il 33 
Was Mr. Smith at home yesterday when the children 
wos misto smip cet houm jestodi hwen do tjildron 
came home from school? No, he was not at home. Mr. 
keim houm from sku:l? nou, hi: wos not cet houm. misto 
Smith comes home at half past five. Is Helen very ill? 
smip kAms houm cet ha:f pa:st faiv. is helin veri il? 
comes 
come 
came 
John comes 
every day. 
The children come 
every day. 
John came 
yesterday. 
The children came 
yesterday. 
says 
say 
said 
The teacher says 
“Good morning.” 
The children say 
“Good morning.” 
Yesterday the 
teacher said 
“Good morning.” 
Yesterday the 
children also said 
“Good morning.” 
come! 
Come into 
the house, 
John! 
Come into the 
house, John 
and Helen! 
77 
Chapter Nine (9). 
No, she is not very ill; she has only a cold, but she will 
nou, fi: iz not veri il; fi: hcez ounli a kould, b\t fi: wil 
be too ill for some days to go to school. Is she too ill 
bi: tu: il fa: saui deiz ta gou td sku:l. iz fi: tu: il 
to read her school-books? No, she is not too ill to read. 
td ri:d ha: sku:lbuksf nou, fi: iz not tu: il ta ri:d. 
She reads her school-books and her other books, and 
fi: ri:dz ha: sku:lbuks and ha: a da buks, and 
when John comes home with the pencil for her from 
hwen dyn kAmz houm wid da pensil fo: ha: from 
the teacher, she will also write. After some days at 
da ti:tfa, fi: wil a.lsou rait. a:fta sawi deiz cet 
home she will be well, and then she will go to school. 
houm fi: zvil bi: wel, and den fi: zvil gou ta sku:l. 
WORDS: 
I 
me 
my 
you 
your 
we 
us 
our 
them 
EXERCISE A. 
There are five — in Mr. Smith’s house. The children 
go to school at nine o’clock in the —. When all the 
children are in the schoolroom, the — comes into the 
room. When he comes, he says to the children, “— 
morning, children; are — all here?” Helen is not at 
school; she is —. John is not ill; he is —. Helen is 
ill; she has a —. The teacher gives John a pencil — 
Helen. John will give it to — when he comes home. 
When the children have no pencils, the teacher gives 
— some. The children write on paper; — colour is 
white. The children come — the schoolroom in the 
morning. 
78 
The Ninth (9th) Chapter. 
John has no pencil, but the teacher gives — one. The 
teacher says to John, “Are — ill, John?” “No,” he 
says, “—am not ill; I — well.” “How many persons 
are you in — family, John?”, “—are five persons in — 
family.” “Is — house a big one, John?” “No, — house 
is not very big; — has only five rooms.” “Will — give 
— another pencil?” “Yes, — will; here is a pencil 
for —.” ^ “What is — name, John?” “— name is John 
Smith.” What — the teacher say to the children every 
morning? He says “Good morning” to —. — is the 
name of John's family? — name is Smith. 
EXERCISE B. 
How many rooms has the school? ... When do the 
children come into the schoolroom? ... What does the 
teacher say to the children every morning? ... Is Helen 
at school to-day? ... Is John ill? ... What does Mrs. 
Smith say to Helen? ... What do the children say to 
their teacher when they have no pencils? ... And what 
does he say to them? ... When will John’s father give 
him a watch? ... Does the teacher read to the children 
at school? ... 
her 
its 
am 
came 
say 
said 
good 
ill 
well 
cold 
here 
for 
morning 
into 
room 
teacher 
twenty 
79 
